What started out as just a relief rally
is starting to become something real.
>> The markets are adjusting. There's no
panic so far.
>> If you're looking at what's been working
in markets the last couple of years,
it's quality stocks.
>> The market is pricing in a friendly sort
of mix of growth, inflation, and policy.
Equities and risk are discounting the
here and now.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday, the president emboldened.
President Donald Trump encouraged by
equities sitting at all-time highs as
the White House ice blanket tariffs of
15 to 20% on many trading partners. The
JP Morgan boss Jamie Diamond is warning
of complacency in financial markets. A
little bit of tension heading into the
weekend. a big game of chicken between
the president and the markets at a time
where President Trump in a conversation
with NBC News said, "I think the tariffs
have been very wellreceived. The stock
market hit a new high today." If the
stock market is reflecting how well
there is uh in the markets these tariffs
are being priced in, then what kind of
risk off do you need to get the
president's attention at a time when
many people are looking past it and the
stock market is not the economy. It is
composed of a lot of big tech stocks.
This is such an important distinction
going into August 1st. The president
takes a look at record highs on the S&P
500 and sees it not as a dismissal of
his policies, but as a endorsement of
his policies. That's a major difference.
>> And right now there is a question of
whether there is going to be some sort
of break that's going to get the
president's attention or whether
ultimately he's looking at a measure
that is imperfect when it comes to
exactly how the tariffs are going to be
received by the economy. This is a huge
tension at a time where people have
continued to say the president backs
down at the last minute. Will he back
down if the market's complacency is
giving him the green light?
>> So, we'll be talking about those
comments from JP Morgan's Jamie Diamond
throughout this morning and there are
many including this line. I have a lot
of friends who are Democrats and they're
idiots. We can build on that later on in
the hour. What's on the complacency
line? There's a big difference again. I
would say some division in the seauite
between what Jamie Diamond of JP Morgan
is saying about the risks around the
economy and what we heard from Ed
Bastion of Delta Airlines just
yesterday.
>> And this goes to the K-shaped economy
and we're going to be talking a lot
about this. There is a cohort of
individuals emboldened by what we're
seeing in the equity markets helping
their wealth effect to really uh boom
and also seeing their earnings go up at
a disproportionate pace. According to
what Neil Richardson is saying, they're
the wealthier individuals and they're
continuing to spend and they're
continuing to spend on premium offerings
a lot of the airlines and then you have
the lower income consumers that are
struggling. How do you deal with that
when you look at the aggregate data
showing a totally benign backdrop? And
this is the really this is the
conversation. How do you measure what is
becoming an increasingly bifurcated
economy both from a corporate sector
with the bigs and the smalls as well as
the economic sector within the uh
consumer economy?
>> A record high in the equity market
coming into Friday. We're pulling back
this morning by 7/10en of 1% on the S&P.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
John Stoers of Oenheimer with stocks
back close to all-time highs. Sammy Sith
of Raymond James on the airlines
following Delta's bullish forecast and
Ed Alhuseni of Colombia threat needle on
the chances of a July Fed rate cut. We
begin this hour with stocks lower as
President Trump ramps up tariff threats.
John Sto of Oenheimer writing, "Our
intermediate and longerterm outlook
remains decidedly bullish. We believe US
economic fundamentals remain on solid
footing. John joins us now for more.
John, good morning.
>> Good morning, John.
>> So, pick your favorite CEO right now.
Jamie Diamond says it's complacency. Ed
Bastian says we've got stability. Which
one is it?
>> Uh, somewhere in between. How's that?
>> That works.
>> That it it it's it's bifurcated. And I
think what we notice is is related to
market capitalization
style as well as uh uh when when you
consider the sectors there will be very
big differences if the tariffs come out
at the higher level among companies.
Some will be have great workarounds some
will be unscathed and someone some will
likely get hit. So it looks like a stock
pickers market here or even an index you
know it it could be better ultimately
for technology and uh and uh and uh
materials for example on expectations of
what is to come beyond
>> let's talk about earnings Max Kentner of
HSBC just in the past day writing this
buy more we increase our overweight to
equities further and prefer the United
States the most risk assets are set to
remain supported with lower sensitivity
to tariffs going into Q2 reporting
season following Delta. Did that bar
come up just a little bit?
>> Yeah, I think the bar does come up a
little bit when we look forward beyond
the later we get into Q2, I think, is
when we begin to see perhaps some effect
at least in anticipation of what's
coming forth. Uh but our our viewpoint
has been for a long time that where we
are today, it's be overweight US. We've
been that way for years. We are we are
moderately exposed what we say is
meaningfully exposed to the
international both developed and
emerging but we think it's still it's
the US we don't think it's the end of US
exceptionalism that's related to
innovation and also within in terms of
policy is always uh a question if we
consider the last four years and and
where we are currently
>> President Trump yesterday I just want to
pick up on the comments that he made uh
yesterday evening when he said I think
the tariffs have been very wellreceived
the stock market hit a new high today.
Does his getting a green light from the
stock market make you feel good or
nervous?
>> Uh I I think it it makes me feel good in
that I think the market is is giving
this some time. It's giving some
consideration. We already had the great
nervousness of April uh of April 2nd and
it had already begun in February on
February 19th when the market began to
move lower and then it accelerated hit a
bottom on April 8th and it's pretty much
rallied since.
>> Okay. So then you reject Michael
Hartnett of Bank of America who said in
a note this morning that really the
complacency that Jamie Diamond was
talking about has to do with stock
traders belief that Trump always
chickens out that ultimately he will
back down and the rates that he's been
putting out will be substantially lower.
Do you think that that is true or do you
think that this market is adequately
pricing in the rates as we've been
hearing as they've been trickling out
over the past few days? I think thus far
the market has been uh adequately uh
pricing in the risks uh uh if it
considers uh Scott Besson's uh influence
at at the White House. And also I don't
think that where we are today is that
it's not so much the taco business. It's
much more that I think that I think that
Trump is sensitive to where the equity
market moves. Uh it's believe me, I'm
not an apologist for Trump. I wasn't an
apologist for Biden either. It's it's
just if you look at it as a strategist,
what's moving the markets is the market
would appear to say there's enough
workarounds that we have moving here
enough within the sectors within the
market capitalizations within style.
There's enough to to take us higher. uh
and where we are today is really a
realization I think that an economy that
is 28 trillion to30 trillion dollars a
year the US economy is likely somewhat
uh uh uh bigger than policy until you
get to a certain level now we have to
wait if we go back to those April 2nd
and we settle on those tariffs that
could be problematic but if we see
negotiations continue and you know on
this whole tariff business I'm not
thrilled about tariffs at all but what I
think about tariffs is is to bring
people to the table. What it reflects is
that the US has the has the biggest
consumer in the world essentially the US
consumer versus over capacity in
manufacturing throughout the world which
has been built for the last 40 30 20 10
5 years most of which has a destination
to the US and is hard to replace because
of the uh uh the the per capita income
of the US consumer whether it's a small
consumer or a big luxury consumer the US
beyond the billionaire class is global
and they compete for the for the latest
Rolls-Royce with the ostrich seats, you
know, but but otherwise when when you
look at the or the Ferraris, you know,
but when it comes to like the pencil
sharpeners, the the the lunch boxes, uh
what whatever it is, the US has the
consumer that'll pay more. China can say
they're going to take they'll say,
"Okay, you won't buy it. We'll sell it
to the emerging markets." It's going to
be tough. The emerging markets don't
have the per capita income to replace
the US buyer. And when it comes to other
countries, uh it it in the in especially
in Europe, they have so much so cost of
socialism built into their businesses
that have to they have to the hurdles
they have to overcome. Their consumer
isn't as big as ours.
>> John, this president wants rate cuts.
Does this market need them?
>> I don't think it does. You know, I'm a
big fan of of Jerome Powell. I think
he's done a great job. 11 cuts, nine
pauses. I'm sorry. 11 11 hikes, nine
pauses, and then three cuts. Uh so far,
no recession. Remarkable with inflation
as sticky as it has been. And the target
>> is that genius or luck?
>> Uh I think it's a combination of both.
Again, I think it's, you know, it's
never it's never clearly bifurcated.
It's like on this kind of thing, it's it
it's a mix. It just is. But but I I do
believe that he's looking for his legacy
is not to uh to to be uh remembered as
as the predecessor of uh of uh of Paul
Vulkar is remembered.
>> So you know is there anything going
forward if the Fed doesn't cut rates
you're not phased? If the rates that
we're seeing in terms of tariffs go on
>> you're not totally phased. What would
phase you heading into the end of the
year at a time where a growing number of
people are saying valuations are pretty
high. A lot of expectations right now
are baked in.
>> Yeah, I I I would say, you know, it it
it's if if we if we see tariffs come in
at those rates that are as high as they
were on April 2nd, I think the market
would have a real reaction. And
>> but up until then, and I also think the
Fed has room to cut and I think the Fed
is willing to cut. I think they're going
to cut two or three times this year. I
don't think it's what the the highly
leveraged crowd wants to see, but I
think it's it's somewhere between 75
bips and 100 bips. Another down payment
from the Fed saying the hike cycle is
ending, but don't expect it. We're not
going back to to you know
1 and 7/8 mortgages. This is this is
this is more uh normalized interest
rates where we're headed.
>> Hey John, it's good to see you. Thanks
for dropping by.
>> Great seeing you.
>> Thank you, sir. John Steelers there of
Oppenheimer on the Federal Reserve. It
depends who you ask. If you ask Governor
Waller getting a very clear answer now
even with the recent labor market data,
I think we're just too tight and could
consider cutting the policy rate in
July. Then going on to say it's not
political.
>> Yeah. Saying that what he's looking at
right now is the fact that tariff and
the effect will not be a long term. It
will be short-lived. Short-lived.
Short-lived. I still can't. So I'm
trying to sort of do the in between the
shortlived.
>> I just go with what's natural.
shortlived just feels right to me.
>> I would agree with you, but I think that
he's looking through this and seeing it
as short-lived and uh other people are
not so certain. Mary Dailyaly who is on
the show actually repeating that and and
reiterating some of that belief and also
seeing maybe two rate cuts this year.
>> Might see some descent in a few weeks
time at that Federal Reserve meeting.
We'll see. If you are just joining us,
welcome to the program. Alltime highs at
a close in yesterday's session. We
pulled back this morning by 610 of 1% on
the S&P with an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Lizzie Burton.
Hey Lizzy. Hey, John. President Trump is
threatening a 35% tariff on some
Canadian goods. The tariff is an
increase from the current 25% level and
would take effect August 1st. It'd be
imposed on US imports from Canada that
aren't shipped under the terms of the US
Mexico Canada agreement. Trump also told
NBC News that he's eyeing blanket
tariffs of 15 to 20% on most trading
partners. Elsewhere, Apple is planning a
release of a line of new products during
the first half of next year, including a
new low-end iPhone, multiple iPads, and
upgraded Macs. A budget smartphone
dubbed the iPhone 17e will be a
follow-up to a $599 model that Apple
launched earlier this year. And London's
Heathro airport plans to invest over $13
billion over the next 5 years to upgrade
its terminals and its services after the
UK hub slipped in global airport
rankings. The project would increase the
number of passengers per year by 10
million, a 12% jump in capacity. And
that should be my brief, John.
>> Hey Lizzie, thank you. More from Lizzie
in about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, the president emboldened.
The open question that maybe we're
getting a little bit of an answer to is
if you get enough resilience in economic
data and the stock market trading at
all-time highs, does that beholden the
administration to sort of press forward
with tariffs?
>> Up next on the program, John Lieieber of
Eurasia Group live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
The things have been super volatile this
year. Two-day winning streak on the S&P
500 into Friday. all-time highs. We
pulled back again. We're down by 610 of
1% at the close on Thursday though.
Positive on the week by 0.02%.
And if we close out the week in positive
territory, the first 3-week winning
streak of 2025 so far. Isn't that
unbelievable?
>> It is unbelievable because it feels like
we've really kind of plumbed the depths
of gloom and doom and at the same time
there's been this buoy and it has come
in the form of big tech and that
continues today. pulling back just a
touch this morning by 610 of 1% under
surveillance the president emboldened.
>> The open question that maybe we're
getting a little bit of an answer to is
if you get enough resilience in economic
data, labor market data, you don't start
to see a move higher with any, you know,
meaningful magnitude in the inflation
data and the stock market trading at
all-time highs. Does that beholden the
administration to sort of press forward
with tariffs? Here's the latest this
morning. Stocks at all-time highs
emboldening the president to move
forward with his tariff agenda. Trump
telling NBC, quote, "I think the tariffs
have been very wellreceived. The stock
market hit a new high today." Trump said
he's now eyeing blanket tariffs of 15 to
20% on many trading partners.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
from DC with more. Morning, Tyler.
>> Yeah, hey, John. Good morning. Really,
these latest moves signal no retreat
from President Trump when it comes to
the future of his tariff plans. And we
have to look holistically at how these
plans have really evolved over the last
week. We now have President Trump upping
his threat when it comes to the blanket
tariffs. As you mentioned, they're up
from 10%. That would be a significant
difference considering that we've seen
outlined in the tariff letters sent so
far. That most of these rates are
hovering around there or at least just
slightly higher. The second part from
this week that we learned was President
Trump holding firm that that August 1st
deadline is really uh the end deadline
for these countries to negotiate. And
then combine that with the future of
sector specific tariffs. Now, of course,
the big escalation that we did get
overnight was President Trump now
threatening this 35% tariff on Canada.
An official does tell Bloomberg News
that USMCA exclusion is expected to
remain in place. That's going to be
absolutely critical moving forward here
since the bulk of US imports from Canada
are USMCA compliant. data shows us that
actually these sorts of imports have
surged since the original tariffs went
uh into place and were a threat back in
February and March. They now make up
about 60% of the goods that cross into
the US from the Canadian border. But
still, John, this is not welcome news
for the Canadian Prime Minister Mark
Carney, who's been trying to leverage
his personal relationship to negotiate
with this White House. In a post on X
last night, he said he would continue to
work towards that August 1st deadline.
But at this point, there are so many
concessions that the White House wants.
We're going to have to see if they're
able to strike a deal.
>> Just before you go, the focus not just
on trade, also on sanctions. We
understand the president basically
pre-announcing a big statement still to
come on Monday. What do we expecting?
>> Yeah. So, John, basically, this is going
to be centered on a bill that is working
its way through the US Senate led by
Senator Lindsey Graham that would ramp
up sanctions against Russia. It comes as
this White House has really expressed
frustration in particular about trying
to work towards a ceasefire when it
comes to Ukraine. We have heard a shift
in rhetoric from this president. In
fact, when it comes to pledging more
weapon supplies to Ukraine after there
was a recent halt in those stockpiles as
the Pentagon said it was looking at its
own defense industrial base and how it
could replenish our weapons at home
before sending them abroad. It's
something that we're watching very
closely and could have some big
implications for getting of Russian
President Vladimir Putin to the
negotiating table.
>> Talic with the latest in DC. Tyler,
thank you. This president can be
encouraged to change his mind and it
seems on Russia his mind has changed.
>> It seems as though he has been shocked
by the discussions that he had with
Vladimir Putin and then several hours
later the assault that was uh fored upon
Kiev. I wonder though whether he'll pull
the trigger. He was saying he would like
Lindsey Graham to pass this bill and
that it's up to him whether or not he's
going to use it. It sort of leaves open
the ambiguity that maybe he would back
away at the last minute.
>> Equities this morning gear pulling back.
We're pulling back from all time highs
on this quote from the president, an
expensive one. Speaking to NBC, I think
the tariffs have been very wellreceived.
The stock market just hit a new record
high. Joining us now to discuss is John
Lieieber of Eurasia Group. John, welcome
to the program, sir. August 1st, big
deadline, another extension. What is
stopping this president from following
through?
>> Very little. Uh I mean, so far it looks
like these tariffs are rousing success.
Everybody, including us, thought that
this would be uh quite bad for the US
economy, and you're just not seeing the
shoe drop yet. Inflation's not so bad.
Growth has been pretty resilient. You
can quibble about some of the jobs
report that just came out uh this month,
but it looks like these tariffs are
working. And I think importantly,
nobody's really retaliated. So the
Canadians haven't retaliated against him
in a serious way. The Europeans have
sort of backed off. The only country
that did retaliate was China, and that
got out of hand quite quickly. And
that's led to what seems to be a pretty
quiet truce that has taken them out of
the crossfire, unlike all these other
major trading partners, including Japan,
South Korea. And as long as that
continues to be the case, I think the
president is getting the message loud
and clear that like your previous guest
said, the economy can absorb a lot uh
these high tariff levels without a huge
downturn. And I think that means he's
going to keep going.
>> John, there's a a message that you put
in there that I thought was really
interesting that you thought that uh
ultimately these tariffs are working
working to do what? To raise revenue,
working to extract concessions from
trading partners. What has been the
goal?
It's making America great again, right?
I mean, I think this is an exercise in
some level. This is an exercise of
power. This is what Trump campaigned on
and this is what he wants to do. Now,
the reshoring and the
reindustrialization will probably take
some time of course if that is going to
happen. But I think that they're working
in that the president can put them in
place without any negative consequences
and the economy is doing great. So, you
know, if you think about it the
president's perspective and the White
House perspectives, this is a
rebalancing of stuff that was broken in
the US economy for decades and it was
broken by previous leaders and now
Trump's coming in to rebalance it. And
in that rebalancing that we've all been
saying is going to be terrible for the
outlook. It hasn't been that bad yet.
So, in that sense, I think that the
rebalancing is starting to work in his
mind and he's going to keep going.
>> In his mind, it's not necessarily
affecting the polls that much. you're
still seeing a lot of popular uh support
to not put tariffs on and there has been
a deterioration in the president's
approval rating. At what point will that
offer up some sort of check? Does that
matter at all or is this a president
that isn't going to run again? So
ultimately those polls don't matter.
>> Yeah, I think that's right. Well, I
think the polls do matter, but the basis
is that you he's got this very strong
base of support in the Republican party.
His approval rating is still above where
it was for basically the entirety of his
first term. And because of that, it
suggests to him that he's doing okay.
So, I think that he's losing support,
but is with voters he doesn't
necessarily care about and he certainly
doesn't need because he's not going to
run again. I
>> think it's a great test going into the
midterms next year for the Democrats,
for the other party, John, because the
tariffs that the president introduced in
his first term were criticized by the
party on the other side and then they
kept them. And I just wonder, John, will
anyone actually campaign on removing
them if they get into power?
>> Yeah, I think it's really hard for the
Democrats, as you just mentioned. I
mean, I think basically on some level
they've been supportive of this kind of
trade protectionist policy for for
decades now. And the reason for that is
this is what the labor unions wanted.
And now Donald Trump has sort of come in
and stolen their uh base of labor union
supporters. He's taken their policy and
taken it to the extreme and they're not
really yet finding a way to articulate
the case against that. And part of the
reason is this economic resilience. Now,
if there is an economic slowdown, if you
do start to see job losses, layoffs, uh
you get some bad job reports, that's
good news for the Democrats, and they'll
certainly lean into that and attribute
it to the chaos caused by Donald Trump.
But I think they're going to have a hard
time campaigning specifically against
these tariffs and it's why any tariff
wall he ends up building probably
endures past his administration.
>> The data so far has been pretty decent.
John, appreciate your time, sir. John
Lieieber there of Eurasia Group. The
jury arguably though still out. You hear
a lot of people, many economists saying
these companies built up a lot of
pre-tariff inventory. They've been
working through them. We still don't
know what the pricing strategy is going
to be in the months to come.
>> Just to build on that, a lot of these
tariffs don't go into an effect until
August 1st if you don't necessarily have
the real tariff rates coming to the
four. How can you even gauge the impact
in the data that we get next week, next
Tuesday with CPI, and then Wednesday
with PPI? uh the Fed's Musulm yesterday
talking about this and saying that he
did expect tariffs to hit inflation
beginning in the June data, but that it
would build through the rest of the year
and this is what we hear from an
increasing number of economists. Who is
going to pay for those? And ultimately,
that I think is a really key question.
Can we judge already the ramifications
from these tariffs?
>> Well, chief guys, down in Washington,
it's pretty simple. If you are a
Republican, you will say the exporter
will pay. And if you are a Democrat, you
will say the consumer will have to pay
for this. I think we have to be super
open-minded because we can pick evidence
elsewhere that suggests it might be the
exporter. Japanese auto suppliers, the
auto market over there for instance,
we've seen prices drop as they export
into the United States. We can also find
examples where the consumer has to
shoulder a lot of this as well. And
we're going to see a lot more of that.
You can cherrypick the data here, there,
and anywhere you want. Ultimately, we've
got to be very open-minded about what
the next few months and the next several
years brings.
>> And that's what we've seen in earnings
as well, that profit margins might come
in just a bit. They might pass a little
bit on to consumers. They might see it
absorbed a little bit by some of the
suppliers. It's going to mitigate the
hit in terms of how inflationary some of
these tariffs will be. There are larger
questions here about lower profit
margins. Have people adequately priced
that in with respect to the stock
market? But a lot of people are waking
up to the fact that this economy is very
resilient and right now the effects are
trickling in at a slow enough pace that
they aren't a slap in the face. Do
>> you want a scary headline?
>> Please. The scariest headline of the
last 24 hours
>> indeed glass door.
>> The people who are meant to help people
get jobs are cutting jobs because of AI.
That for me is concerning for this labor
market going forward.
>> There are these secular and cyclical
trends that are overlaying upon one
another and it's making it very
difficult to extrapolate extrapolate
out. It's Friday. Bear with me.
Extrapolate out these longer term trends
and certainly in the labor market if not
in inflation.
>> 2 hours 30 minutes to go. Brea
>> I know. I know. I'm just, you know, good
morning.
>> Both of us will get it together. Up next
on the program, Savvy Sith of Raymond
Change with a look at the airlines
following Delta's strong forecast. Plus,
Yihara Arnand with your morning movers
live from New York. You're watching
Bloombo TV.
So, the president citing all-time highs
in the equity market and saying that
that is evidence that his tariffs are
being wellreceived. So what happens when
he says that? We pull back. We're down
by 0.7% on the S&P just on the very idea
that maybe that encourages the president
to go hard, go big on August 1st. So
that's the equity market debate of the
morning so far. Let's turn to the bond
market. So far so good this week. Yields
just about unchanged on the week so far.
10-year auction. Okay. 30-year auction.
Okay. The 30-year yield this morning.
High by three or four basis points. 490
on 30s. Don't look states side. Look to
Europe. Germany. France. 30-year
maturities. the highest we've seen on a
yield basis going back to 2011
>> at a time when the economic data isn't
quite as bad as people expected. And
Isabel Schnobble came out and said
unless there's a massive deterioration
in the backdrop, she doesn't think that
the ECB really has any urgency to cut
rates further. So, kind of a hawkish
tone from the ECB, even though some of
them have talked about concern that
maybe the euro is getting too strong. I
do want to say we had dollar strength
this week. We had the second best dollar
strength week that we've had going back
to Liberation Day of 0.6%.
>> Super low bar, right? Super low bar. But
I'm with you. It's noteworthy. Also
noteworthy, notable. Jamie Diamonds made
a load of comments in the last 24 hours,
I think, over in Dublin. His point on
Europe just in the line, a few words,
you're losing. That's his message to the
Europeans right now.
>> He talked about their output and how
much it just has absolutely lost share
relative to what the US has done. He
talked about how they really haven't
invested. He talked about the over
regulation and he said get in the game
because right now you're not even close.
And that to me is something that's being
echoed not only by the draggy report by
a lot of uh politicians throughout the
region.
>> Euro dollar this morning just about
unchanged 116 94 with 3 hours until the
cash open for the equity market stay
side with your morning movers. Here with
us now is Yahara Island. Hey yhara.
>> Good morning John. We start with Levi
Strauss the latest company to report
results and they were solid. Look at the
stock. It is up nearly 7% in the
pre-market. The jeans giant hiked its
fullear revenue forecast, saying that
despite all those added costs from
tariffs, they actually see sales rising
up to 2% this year. That's due to strong
demand and a strategy shift that's
working, which is to offer headto toe
denim. So, not just focusing on jeans,
but denim accessories and clothing. So,
that is helping to offset any pressure
they are seeing from tariffs. Next up,
we have Nvidia. Worth noting since it
became the first company ever to close
at a $4 trillion market cap yesterday.
We are off those levels now with stock
down about a 8/10 above percent. But the
significant moment yesterday came as CEO
Jensen Wong went to the White House to
meet with President Trump. We don't know
what they discussed, but there is a lot
to talk about, not just tariffs, but
those export controls just as Wong is
set to go to China next week. And we end
with a rally in drone stocks. Redcat
holdings up nearly 16% while Kratos and
Aero V environment is also up and that
is because defense secretary Pete Heget
says that the US is ready to unleash
drone dominance. His plan is to
fasttrack drone production and push
thousands of lowcost drones to troops in
order for them to start testing them and
training with them for combat. John
>> Yhira, thank you. More from Yihara in
the next hour. On our radar this
morning, President Donald Trump ramping
up the pressure on global trading
partners, telling NBC News he's
considering a new blanket tariff rate of
15 to 20%. Trump also threatening a 35%
tariff on some Canadian goods.
>> Raises a question who he's negotiating
with. Is he negotiating with the trading
partners? Is he negotiating with the
market? Is he negotiating with the
budget deficit? This the reason why I
say that is because I was struck by
Vietnam. They were surprised when he
announced that they had agreed to a 20%
baseline tariff rate and is continuing
to discuss with them behind the scenes,
the US delegates exactly what that looks
like and could come down a little bit
lower. They would have been okay with
like a 10 to 15%. So it seems as though
the trading partners have gotten a
different message and maybe their
response will be slightly different if
they see these rates as plausible going
forward.
>> That's my takeaway from the whole thing
was the last point of what you said.
They'd be willing to accept something
like 15%. That's a whole new world
compared to where we were a few months
ago. Not just them, but the Europeans
also willing to accept 10%.
>> There is a feeling that's fine and you
could talk about escalate to deescalate.
This is a president that sets the bar
very high and then brings it down and
makes it look like he's cutting a deal,
but really he's extracted some
concessions. This is why people call him
an excellent dealmaker. A real question
though, how far can you push it? And
will he be willing to accept a 10 to 15%
tariff rate if it is acceptable to them
and if the market is chugging along or
is he going to try to extract more? And
is that August 1 deadline going to be
more of a risk event than a lot of
people are talking about?
>> It's going to be an interesting three
weeks still to come on the trade front.
Interesting week still to come for
Russia. President Trump planning a major
statement on Russia for Monday. The
president also saying he expects the
Senate to pass a bill ramping up
sanctions on the country
>> and he will decide at that point whether
or not he's going to sign off on that. I
do wonder how much he has changed his
mind, what could potentially happen over
the weekend to uh influence him one way
or another and what this will do on the
geopolitical stage. We were talking to
Mike Pence yesterday and I was really
struck by what he said. He has faith
that actually this time the president is
going to take a harder line on Russia
after seeing what happened to Kiev
because he has been working with Lindsey
Graham. It does seem like the tide is
shifting especially with respect to the
calls around Vladimir Zilinsky over in
Ukraine.
>> It's certainly something that the
Senator Graeme has been pushing for over
the last few years. That's for sure.
Want to turn to these comments from the
JP Morgan CEO Jamie Diamond. Not just on
the economy, on financial markets. some
very harsh words for the Democratic
Party, saying members went too far in
their focus on diversity, equity, and
inclusion. Diamond adding, and this is a
direct quote, I have a lot of friends
who are Democrats and they're idiots.
>> And he went on to say, they have big
hearts and small brains talking about
some of their policies. They don't live
in the real world. Some pretty harsh
criticism. You could say a lot of things
about this. You could take this in a lot
of different ways. The way that I'm
curious to see uh how this plays out is
there are a lot of people who have
affiliated with the Democrats who are
very critical of the party. How do they
give a message going forward? Because
what is the Democrat's message right
now?
>> So, I'm not going to make this about one
specific company. I'll just talk about
corporate America at large. And it
doesn't apply to everyone, but applies
to many. 5 years ago, they're kneeling
in front of their emblem because they
believe that helps them. 5 years later,
they're trashing DEI. And I think many
of these companies don't have values.
They have sales targets and they're
willing to do whatever it takes to make
people believe that these are our
values. Help us sell product. My issue
with that is the winds of change seem to
be influenced by who is in the White
House at any given time. And that seems
to be what all these stories are
associated with. And now for me
personally, I didn't like the virtue
signaling 5 years ago and I don't like
it now. And I think for many companies,
let's take a bank. For me, for a bank, I
don't care what your CEO thinks about
these things. When I go to the bank, I
want to know my money's there. And if
I'm borrowing money, I want a really low
rate. And if I'm depositing money, I
want a really high rate. That's
ultimately what I want as a consumer. Do
I want the CEO of said bank telling me
about what he thinks about politics
here, politics there, values here,
values there, if their values seem to
change every election cycle?
>> It's a fair point. If you take it a
little bit of a step further, right now
on an international stage, the corporate
executives in the United States are
little ambassadors going around the
world saying policy does not create what
we do every single day and they're
trying to distinguish themselves with
their own mini platforms. It's almost
sort of this political structure that is
really uh beholden in the corporate
sector that is divorced from what's
happening in Washington DC. There is a
feeling Washington DC is a mess. we have
it together and this is our policy
platform and it feels almost as though
that's the pitch on an international
level and I wonder if this speaks to the
international change in minds because
this isn't just a US sort of shifting in
the winds this is a global one and it
has a broader appeal and it's notable he
was saying this over in the UK
>> we've got earnings next week they do
>> we've got earnings from JP Morgan next
week and we're talking about thoughts on
complacency around markets and DEI and
we're not talking about the actual
numbers
>> well if the numbers will come out and
they'll have record profits and it'll be
great. That's basically what we've we've
become accustomed to. You know, the
world might be falling apart and lots of
complacency, but
>> raise the outlook.
>> Yeah. But but you know, raise the
outlook $2 billion in profits.
>> The big banks reporting next week. Look
out for that. Turning to the airlines.
We've already heard from one. Their
stocks are flying high after Delta
delivered better than expected earnings
and restored its fullear guidance. Savvy
Sith of Raymond James joins us now for
more. Savvy, welcome to the program.
Just fantastic numbers from Delta
reinstating the outlook. Some real
confidence coming from the CEO at
Bastion. Do you believe that it's just a
Delta Airlines story or a broader
industry story?
>> Hey, good morning, John. Thanks for
having me. Um, it it's a little bit of
both. If you look at the 3Q guide and
and the beat, there was definitely good
cost execution from Delta, controlling
what they can control. Um, but the
optimism that they're talking about
really is driven by what the industry as
a whole is doing. we did see demand kind
of start to wayne from from the really
strong levels you saw in December,
January as you went through April. Um,
and now we have stability and what I
think they're most excited about is just
how much the industry's done to get
supply to match that demand in the post
period. Um, so it is an industry story,
not just Delta. And then maybe as we get
some level of certainty with the
reconciliation bill and maybe with the
tariffs, may maybe that would kind of
get the consumer and and corporate um
some confidence to to pick up travel
again. Savvy, the way that we were
talking about it yesterday was about a
K-shaped consumer and that certain uh
airlines, particularly Delta, cater to
that corporate class, have a lot of
premium offerings and can have much
bigger profit margins that really
bolster the rest of their earnings in a
way that some of the other airlines
particularly uh the ones more focused on
budget conscious consumers don't have.
Is that a fair way to look at it?
>> Yeah, that's fairly so. If you look at
it uh you know the airlines that have
more premium and corporate have been
doing better through this kind of
slowdown. Um but the interesting thing
is uh you know one most airlines that
their household income the consumer
target consumer has a higher household
income. Um and the budget traveler is
where I think Delta seeing a little bit
more excitement. Main cabin is where
they're expecting improvement again as
supply starts to kind of meet demand.
And then again as as maybe we start to
see a little bit more certainty and
confidence return.
>> When you keep talking about supply
essentially they're constraining
capacity as a result of declining demand
and it raises this issue about price
increases. Is that still the goal? Can
they still raise prices on consumers
particularly in the main cabin at a time
where they're having to cut capacity in
order to really rightsize the supply
demand backdrop?
>> It's it's it's a mathematical equation
Lisa. You know what's happening here is
you are taking the seats that cannot be
filled at a at a decent margin off the
market, right? So the average fairs do
go up just by um the function of of of
that. And what you need is demand
improvement than to push prices higher
on kind of the additional seat. So uh
right now it's it's more about supply
coming out and the average fair going
up. Um and it's necessary because there
are a lot of airlines that aren't
profitable at all in this environment.
Um and and then hopefully as as demand
starts to uh strengthen, we'll be able
to kind of pass through prices to to
also meet kind of the higher level of
cost for airlines.
>> Savvy, for many of us in this market
over the last several months, things
have felt anything but stable. They've
been incredibly volatile. That quote
that came from Ed Bastian, I just found
absolutely stunning. I've been thinking
about it ever since it came out. Just
the idea that this environment can be
described as incredibly stable. Safi,
where is that coming from? What kind of
stability does he see? what is
influencing it?
>> Yeah, it's it's it's definitely as we
kind of reflected on the second quarter,
it was a quarter that a lot of things
happened, but nothing changed from a
demand standpoint. Uh so you've seen
kind of demand uh bottom, but it hasn't
really changed that. None of the kind of
the headlines the headlines stop demand
from recovering. You see, you know,
green shoots of demand recovering and
then some headline happens and demand
kind of goes back to that stable level.
So, u it's it's definitely interesting
that demand has remained stable, which
is encouraging. Um, and what we're
looking for is maybe a recovery from
these levels.
>> Do you expect to see the same thing at
United and American Airlines? Can they
repeat what Doutter Airlines did this
week?
>> Yes, I mean again um I think they're
seeing the same trends. Um they they
have some unique geographic exposures
perhaps, but one thing I would say is
again the third quarter Delta's EPS
guide beat expectations. Half of that
came from cost execution, but the
component that came from demand and and
the stability, I think that can be
replicated at at American and United as
well.
>> Savvy, appreciate it as always. Savvy
Sith of Raymond James on Delta Airlines,
not just a Delta story here, Bremo.
Apparently, this is an industry story.
>> Yeah, because they're right sizing the
supply demand picture so that prices can
still keep going up. She did say ge
geographic issues and she pointed out
American airlines as not necessarily
being beholden as much to some of these
trends. The geographic aspect of this is
going to be fascinating. They're more
focused in Latin America and South
America and all of the Americas. And I
wonder what the international travel
backdrop is going to look like from all
of these as sort of a read through of
the popularity of certain regions
differentials of FX as well as different
immigration policies.
>> AMH is trying to get a direct flight
from JFK to the south of Italy.
evidently. Is that why she's after
today?
>> Maybe. We'll see if she's successful or
not. Let's give an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Lizzie Burden.
Hey, Lizzie.
>> Hey, John. Vietnam is seeking to lower
its tariff rate by the US. Sources say
the country's leadership was caught off
guard by President Trump's announcement
last week of a 20% tariff. Vietnam is
pushing for a tariff more in the 15 10
to 15% range. Elsewhere, Israel
reportedly believes that some of Iran's
underground stockpile of enriched
uranium survived last month's US and
Israeli attacks. The New York Times
cites a senior Israeli official saying
some of the material may still be
accessible. The same official says that
Israel had uncovered a secret Iranian
project to build a bomb late last year.
And Tesla is planning to expand its robo
taxi service into California and Arizona
after its recent roll out in Texas. CEO
Elon Musk expects the driverless cars
could launch in the San Francisco Bay
area in a month or two pending
regulatory approval. Tesla has also
applied to operate in Phoenix and a
decision is expected by the end of the
month. And that should be my brief. John
>> Lizzy, thank you. More from Lizzy in the
next hour. Up next on the program, it's
not political.
>> Given where we are with the labor
market, given where inflation has been,
I just made the argument I think we're
just too tight and we could consider
cutting the policy rate in July. It's
not political.
>> Up next on a program, Ed Alhuseni of
Columbia Thread Needle, live from New
York City. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
pulling back from record highs on the
S&P 500 this morning. We're down by 0.7%
on the S&P. On the NASDAQ 100, we're
down by 6/10en of 1% on the Russell. We
are underperforming. We're down by 1.2%
so far this morning. Under surveillance
this morning, it's not political.
>> If inflation comes down, we can lower
rates. We should not be responding to
tariffs with the policy rate. And as
long as the economy is doing okay,
that's fine to lower rates. And if
there's any blip up in inflation because
the tariffs, you just look through it
and keep moving. Given where we are with
the labor market, given where inflation
has been, I just made the argument, I
think we're just too tight and we could
consider cutting the policy rate in
July. It's not political.
>> Here's the latest this morning. Fed
Governor Chris Waller breaking with the
central bank's wait andsee narrative,
floating a July rate cut. The president
continuing his attack on Fed chair J Pal
posting on Truth Social. Too late
demeans the great credit of the USA.
Lower the rate. Ad Husseini of Columbia
Thread Needles writing this. The Fed's
bias this year has been to react to
incoming data rather than act
proactively. They may end up looking for
a huge rock to hide under in the second
half. Ed joins us now for more. Ed, good
morning. It's good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> How political are things about to get in
the second half of this year? It's
really tough because you have the the
fog of data that the Fed has to go
through in addition to this
extraordinary pressure from the White
House and of course the succession
conversation um uh early next year. So
the anything they do will have political
undertones at the stage.
>> Any sign at all from your standpoint
looking at markets that we're beginning
to bake in some kind of political
premium in the yield curve?
>> You know, not yet. Um the yield curve
particularly the longer end of the yield
curve has been I think
disproportionately focused on the fiscal
premium and the fiscal story over the
course of the past year. Uh that's gone
up noticeably. The curve is steeper in
real interest rates are higher but we
haven't seen it in I think the inflation
market and that to me would be the the
center of where any kind of deviation
from Fed independence would start to
show up first. And part of the reason
why you haven't seen that and why you've
seen implied volatility in Treasury
yields actually fall to the lowest level
in about a year is because there's a
huge economic debate about just how
inflationary these tariffs will be.
We've even heard members of the Fed like
Mary Dailyaly say it looks like they're
going to be evenly distributed and
they're not going to be that
significant. You seem to disagree. Why?
>> Well, you know, the there is a
conversation to be had around just how
quickly tariffs will hit the economy.
In the course of the last, I think four
or five years, we've relearned over and
over again that various aspects of
policy have long and variable lags. It
was true with monetary policy. It was
true with fiscal policy. We're about to
find out that trade policy also has long
and variable lags. And so, I think
committing to a view that um the
inflation story is going to be very
short-lived. It's going to be very long
and persistent. Um uh you don't want to
do that this early on. And I think you
want to have the flexibility. And I
think the Fed has shown to some extent
that that flexibility at this stage.
>> You said uh in your recent notes that we
could get a bump to core PCE inflation
as a result of some of the tariffs that
have been announced uh up to about a
full percentage point, 100 basis points
by the end of this year. What would that
do to markets? How offsides are markets
to that type of reality?
>> You know, not that much. I think if you
look at market expectations, they're
roughly for about 50 basis points of
cuts this year. 50 to 75 next year. If
in fact the inflation story is
front-loaded
and relatively sharp, I think cuts this
year will start to come out. Maybe we're
down to 25. I I think it's really
difficult to fully price that out. So
that gap isn't huge. The gap next year
is going to be massive. And I think in
my mind, this is going to be the core of
the debate as we get into the second
half.
Is is there room for the Fed to cut much
more aggressively in the event that the
economy slows this U tariff inflation
story turns out to be transitory um or
will they have to remain on hold for the
entirety of the year to fight off an
economy that's starting to overheat
fiscal policy in play tariff uh
inflation could prove I think and this
is a risk could prove to be a little bit
more long-lasting
>> Ed I'd love to know what your base case
is do you see that dual mandate in
conflict as we work our way through next
year Not that much. I mean, my base case
is perhaps we're priced pretty much to
perfection this year. I don't think we
can do that much more. Um, the economic
data is held in quite well, particularly
around the labor market. Next year, I
see uh significantly lower terminal
rate. So, where the Fed's going to land
right now, we're landing at about 3
three and a quarter in terms of Fed
funds. I think there's significant room
to land a lot lower both as underlying
inflation works through the tariff story
but also because the margin of error now
around the labor market is exceptionally
skinny.
>> Coming into this year there was a belief
that the US would be more resilient than
the rest of the world to any kinds of uh
tariffs. That's reversed itself.
Suddenly the US is the epicenter of pain
at least as implied by markets. Are we
going to see it flip back where people
start pricing in a slower growth
environment for developing markets for
other even developed nations that are
facing off with the conundrum of how to
deal with these? Yeah. I mean it's it's
an incredibly difficult story. Um in
some ways when you think about trade the
US is largely isolated. It's a
relatively closed economy. Most large
economies outside of the US you know
think about Europe um China and so on
are significantly more leverage to
trade. So if global trade starts to slow
and that is not just trade with the US
but trade between those other countries
starts to slow as a result of our trade
policies that's going to be
significantly ne negative for growth
that is not in the price of the moment.
Risk assets in emerging markets risk
assets outside of the US have rallied
significantly with the view that growth
there is going to be good. I think there
is some room for that to reverse for
sure. The longer the US economy
continues to perform even if it's
muddling through risk assets here would
be looked at as quite attractive and if
anything a little bit cheaper now
relative to the rest of the world.
>> Should we finish on some good news then?
Two auctions went pretty decently this
week.
>> That's right.
>> We can clear some supply. It's a good
thing, right? A
>> buyer strike. Uh I think the notion that
there's a buyer strike in treasuries I
think it's very difficult to find in the
data. I think it's very difficult to
find um evidence for the view that
foreigners have stepped back from the
treasury market. And I think what we're
starting to see is the anticipation
building that later this year the
Treasury is going to pull back in terms
of supply and the long end of the curve
and move most of that supply into the
belly towards treasury bills. I think
that's becoming a very consensus view at
this stage. This is what Lisa has been
talking about over the past week
>> and ultimately the supply demand side of
this story is going to dominate in the
in the rest of this year. Let's just
just to caveat that a little bit. We are
trading close to 5% yields on 30-year
treasuries. This is a group of people
saying maybe there's value in locking
money in for 30 years at 5%. Uh and you
know if it if we lose a little bit we
can buy some more. It's not people
saying oh it's a great environment let's
buy. Let's go.
>> There's always a price to clear supply.
The good news on a tenure at least is
438 and not 538.
>> Correct. That's good.
>> And we'll run with that. All right, Ed.
It's good to see you.
>> Thank you, sir. Ed Huseni there of
Columbia Thread Needle. Coming up next
on the program, Emily Roland of John
Hancock, Janette Low of Strategus, Eric
Ajarn of UBS, Stephanie Roth of Wolf
Research from New York, the second hour
of Bloomberg Surveillance. Up next.
[Music]
>> The economy has been stress tested by
tariff man and yet it's passing the
test.
>> The economy has shown relative
resilience.
>> What we've seen so far is evidence that
the news flow on the inflation front is
okay.
>> Already you're seeing consumer spending
stalling out. You are seeing pressure on
some of the lower-end consumers. There
is still some resilience, but it's more
up the income spectrum.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to you all. The second hour
of Bloomberg Surveillance starts right
now. And your scores look like this.
Equity futures pulling back from alltime
highs on the S&P 500. Negative so far by
about 7/10en of 1% on the Nasdaq 100,
down by 0.6. 6 the headline of the last
24 hours. This quote from the president
of the United States. I think the
tariffs have been very wellreceived. The
stock market hit another record high.
The president looking at the equity
market as an endorsement of his
policies.
>> So this goes to a real question and we
have to ask this and I don't know the
answer. I'm going to be completely
transparent. Does the market not believe
President Trump's most extreme threats
is not pricing them in or has it priced
them in to some extent? Right? Does it
this market believe that the president
will back down from some of the more
extreme threats eventually? And is that
the reason why the market is not
responding a kind of game of chicken or
has this market priced it in and
realized it doesn't matter that much to
an economy that is somewhat insulated to
trade relative to the rest of the world?
>> Tough question. I'll use someone else's
words to answer. Okay, someone bullish
constructive on this market. Max Kent or
HSBC risk assets are set to remain
supported with lower sensitivity to
tariffs because Q2 reporting season is
the key catalyst. The earnings have been
okay and I think investors are
comfortable with things because so far
and I stress so far and we can have a
big debate about what things look like
in the future. But just an observation
about where we are so far the earnings
are still okay. The guidance coming from
the likes of Delta pretty decent and the
data has held up on output GDP not great
but the labor market all right. And then
you look at things like inflation and we
haven't seen that firm up in the way
people thought it would over the past
few months.
>> Take that a step further. If you can't
have a crystal ball because things are
so murky, do you end up just saying we
can't know the future so we could just
know the present and the present looks
fine so let's keep going with that. Is
that essentially what people in this
market are doing because the future is
too difficult to really parse through.
And that is what we're seeing in
economic data even at the same time that
there is a huge raging debate among
economists about how much we could
potentially price in tariffs that
haven't even gone into effect yet that
will go in in August 1st really
spotlighting next week's CPI report on
Tuesday. Way of Black Rockck, I think,
did a fantastic job of articulating this
in the past week or so. If you're
struggling to find macro anchors and
it's difficult at the moment, look
elsewhere. Look to Mega Forces, AI. Look
what Nvidia's telling you. Look what
Taiwan Semi is telling you. I've
repeated this all week. Look what Mark
Zuckerberg is telling you. That guy's
going to pay someone $100 million to do
one job around one theme. That tells you
everything about what's really
dominating the top of this equity market
at the moment. That's where the gains
are.
>> It tells you everything about what your
major should have been in college and
what jobs you should have gone into.
maybe uh if you wanted to get that $100
million bonus. It does raise a question
though, how much are we kind of hitting
thin air in terms of the concentration
of leadership, big tech taking massive
flows, almost record flows over the past
week because people can bet on that
theme at the expense of everything else.
How much is that muddying the signal
from a stock market that is so heavily
heavily dominated by that at the same
time that the Russell 2000 more
representative of the broader economy is
struggling to catch up? And that I think
is something people are grappling with.
>> And underperforming again so far this
morning. The Russell down by around 1%
on the S&P negative by 7/10 of 1%.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Emily Roland of Manual Life, John
Hancock following fresh record highs.
Janette Low Strategus as President Trump
floats higher tariff rates and Stephanie
Roth of Wolf Research on a bifocated
outlook in the seauite. We begin this
hour with stocks down on President
Trump's latest tariff threats. Emily
Roland of Manual Life, John Hancock,
writing, "In our view, US equities have
the best chance globally of seeing
positive earnings trends. It may have
more room to run." Emily joins us now
for more. Emily, welcome to the show.
There was one line in your research that
popped off the page for me. The year so
far has been about politics and not
profits. Is it about to change?
>> Yeah, John. Luckily, investors are going
to be able to focus on something else
other than political developments.
There's a lot to take in from the big
beautiful bill to tariff announcements.
You can almost get stuck in analysis
paralysis doing that. And luckily, we
can focus on the fundamentals. It
reminds us of that famous Bill Bellichic
uh press conference where he refused to
answer questions about the loss to the
Kansas City Chiefs and kept saying,
"We're on to Cincinnati. We're on to
Cincinnati and we're on to earnings
season next week." Analysts are
penciling in 5% earnings growth for S&P
500 companies. That's come down a bit.
So the bar is lower. We're going from
13% earnings growth, just awesome
results in the first quarter. This is
going to be more about the halves and
the have knots going into Q2. So we're
going to have to see which companies can
deal with revenue growth slowing.
Margins are starting to get compressed.
Profitability here is coming under a bit
of pressure. Those high quality
companies that can maintain those
margins in the face of some of these
headwinds, we think are going to be the
relative winners as we head into the
back half of the year. from a true
Patriots fan sitting in Boston, I'm
sure. That's right. Just to follow up on
some of that and not the sport, the
division between Europe and the United
States. Do you see it flipping the other
way in the next half?
>> We do, John. And there's just been this
unbelievable outperformance of non US
equities. European stocks are up double
digits. A lot of that, of course, has
been helped by the weaker dollar. But
meanwhile, we've seen better relative
economic growth in the United States and
better relative earnings growth in the
United States. This has been a big story
around sentiment, capital flow shifting
into Europe, a sell everything American
trade. It's almost just like the US is
just getting a participation award but
and but Europe is really just
outperforming and shining here. We think
that potentially reverses again as
investors can look at the fundamental
backdrop, look at where better relative
economic growth is coming in and
reallocate assets to highquality stocks
in the United States.
>> I'm picturing the US equity markets with
the rocky soundtrack in the background
kind of trying to get that, you know,
gold medal. But there is this question
going forward, how much is this entirely
driven by the big tech sector in the
United States versus some overall
optimism about the growth trajectory?
Yeah, the concentration risk is a worry
again. The top 10 stocks in the S&P 500
back up near 40% and the valuations are
egregious. I mean, uh, the US, uh, S&P
500 growth index is trading at almost a
50% premium to its 20-year average. Uh,
we still like tech, as you know, we've
been overweight technology stocks in the
United States for over 5 years. um and
because the earnings engine is on there.
But you've got to find those quality
stocks at a reasonable price. You've got
to protect against the valuation risk by
owning things like midcap stocks which
are trading at the largest discount to
their large cap counterparts since the
late 1990s. We're looking at areas where
you can find quality at a reasonable
price. That's leading us to health care,
utilities, industrial sectors,
communication services. We're looking
closely. I don't want to get too nerdy
here, but we're looking closely at the
PEG ratio right now, which is the PE
ratio divided by earnings growth. It's
basically a measure that tells you how
much you're paying for future earnings
growth. And we think that's absolutely
critical here in a market that's
continued to be dominated by risk-taking
uh and really ignoring a lot of the kind
of noise that's going on in the
background.
>> Emily, I keep thinking about the phrase
you used, analysis paralysis. It was
very relatable and it kind of raises
this question. If stocks are the
ultimate forward discounting mechanism
of what the future will bring, how do
you extrapolate out some profit margin
when the tariffs are still being
negotiated? And people are still
debating what kind of ramification they
will have both on growth as well as
inflation.
>> Yeah, it's so difficult right now, Lisa.
And I think everybody is trying to
handicap the impact that tariff might
tariffs may have to corporate profits.
Um there are also some positive elements
as far as the big beautiful bill around
capex expensing that should be accretive
uh to corporate profits. We're seeing
deregulatory measures uh sort of playing
out in the backdrop right now. So
there's sort of competing forces
happening that may impact profits from
here. You know, right now I think the
biggest risk to markets is that there is
no risk. Uh you look at the forward uh
PE ratio on the S&P 500, we're at around
22 1.5 times forward earnings. That's
close to a 10-year high. Um we don't
look at valuations as necessarily a
catalyst, but the starting point is just
really tricky because there's so much
good news being baked in. I know you
love to talk about a high yield bond
spread. So do we. We're at 268ish
basis points over treasuries. that is
close to 10-year tights. We're seeing
Bitcoin at new all-time highs. So,
investors are saying that everything is
awesome and there's not a lot of risk
that are going to play out here. We
think that that's probably a bit overly
optimistic. So, I think again
gravitating to those higher quality
stocks selling into momentum. We're
starting to see a little bit of weakness
on the momentum side. maybe reallocating
into lower volatility parts of the
market which looks like the value play
right now makes a lot of sense as some
of these risks may materialize into the
back half of the year
>> and yet Emily people seem to be
comfortable because they believe the
Federal Reserve will start reducing
interest rates and then go even harder
in 26 yet when I ask this question and
you might have heard me ask it through
the week is this an equity market that
needs rate cuts the bulls keep
responding no do you think it is
>> no I mean not right
But what you'll see, I think you're
exactly right. There's a honeymoon phase
where if the Fed indicates that yes,
they're ready to start cutting and
we've, you know, heard that from a
couple FOMC members this week that, you
know, July was on the table. I think
what you'll see is a positive reaction
if the Fed is cutting just because
inflation's coming down. Look,
inflation's coming down. Of course, we
get a big CPI report next week, but
we're at the lowest level since 2021.
There's significant disinflation coming
from the housing side. I wish more
people were talking about this right
now. Supply of homes just jumped 30%
year-over-year. We have the most homes
on the market since 2020. Demand is
slowing in the face of unaffordability,
untenable insurance costs. People are
worried about their jobs. Major shifts
happening. Home prices are starting to
roll over. Shelter is 35% of headline
CPI. So I think there's enough
disinflation on the shelter or housing
side to potentially overcome any goods
driven uh tariff inflation that we see
again on the goods side. So there's some
dynamics that are happening under the
surface that bond investors are not
sniffing out which is why we still think
that there's a lot of value at 438 on
the 10-year Treasury yield tier.
>> You like 10 here Emily? Do you like 30s?
Can I sell? Are you a buyer?
>> I don't think it's the worst thing you
can do. I mean, a 5% 30-year Treasury,
of course, you've got to rightsize that
position because there's a lot of
volatility there. But if you can lock in
a a 10 a 30-year yield around 5% and
build that income stream, not the worst
thing you could do in a portfolio.
>> We found one. There you go.
>> I was just about to say you got a buyer.
Good job. I'm impressed. You'll get a
commission from the US Treasury
Department.
>> Emily Roland of Manual Life, John
Hancock. Emily, thank you. Enjoyed this.
Thank you very much. 30s this morning.
491 10s 438.
>> So, close your eyes. buy everything, go
to sleep, wake up in 2027 and figure it
out. Then
>> disinflation argument was quite
convincing though on the shelter side of
things at least.
>> If you take a look at pricing on a
global scale, particularly in some of
the areas in the United States that were
most bit up in the direct aftermath of a
pandemic, you have seen price decreases.
You've seen volumes come down. If rates
stay high, well, that's a natural
consequence because it costs more to
borrow money. So, people are going to
negotiate harder when it comes to the
actual price. I know that some people
are close closely uh connected with that
story
>> trying to negotiate housing costs and
stuff like that. Yeah, I've been trying
to do that for years.
>> So you see so you see it in real time.
So maybe prices will go down and then
it'll get a lot more attractive.
>> Not all of us got that 2 3% mortgage a
few years ago.
>> Yeah, but the prices were high. Yeah.
All right. Whatever. But for sure. Yeah.
Okay.
>> Equity futures on the S&P. Let's get
back to that. Far more comfortable with
stocks. We're down about 610 of 1%.
Let's give you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Lizzie Burden.
Hi Lizzie.
>> Hey John. Israel reportedly believes
that some of Iran's underground
stockpile of enriched uranium survived
last month's attacks. The New York Times
cites a senior Israeli official saying
some of the material may still be
accessible. The same official says that
Israel had uncovered a secret Iranian
project to build a bomb late last year.
Elsewhere, Tesla's planning to expand
its robo taxi service into California
and Arizona after its recent roll out in
Texas. CEO Elon Musk expects the
driverless cars could launch in the San
Francisco Bay area in a month or two.
Tesla has also applied to operate in
Phoenix and a decision there is expected
by the end of this month. And in sports,
the women's singles final at Wimbledon
will feature firsttime major finalist
American Ananda Anisimova after she
upset top ranked Arena Sabalanka in the
semis. Anisova will take on five-time
major champion Eager Sphere tomorrow.
And in the men's tournament, American
Taylor Fritz will play Carlos Alcarz and
Yanick Ses Novak Jovovich. And that's my
brief, John.
>> Thank you very much, Lizzie. Yanick
versus Novak. That's must watch later,
right?
>> How many hours do you think it's going
to be? Eight.
>> Five at least. I don't know.
>> What do they What do they eat before
that? Oh,
>> the stamina is unreal, isn't it?
>> Really? Is it just a massive thing of
pasta? Do they have energy gels?
>> Speaking of tennis, did you see Billman
this week?
>> Yes, I did.
>> Thoughts? Um, on one hand, I admire that
he put himself out there.
>> Yeah,
>> that's all I'll say.
>> I'm going to say Andy Rodic came out
swinging. So, if you want to see some
comments, have a listen to Andy Rodic.
I'll just leave that out there. Up next
on the program, Trump presses forward.
The open question that maybe we're
getting a little bit of an answer to is
if you get enough resilience and
economic data and the stock market
trading at all-time highs, does that
beholden the administration to sort of
press forward with tariffs?
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Janette Lo
Strategus from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
So, two-day winning streak on the S&P
coming into Friday heading towards the
weekend. We're down by 0.6% so far this
morning. Down by about a half of 1% on
the NASDAQ. Lisa talked about the
underperformance in the Russell. The
Russell 2000 this morning down around
about 1%. Under surveillance this
morning, Trump presses forward.
>> The open question that maybe we're
getting a little bit of an answer to is
if you get enough resilience in economic
data, labor market data, you don't start
to see a move higher with any, you know,
meaningful magnitude in the inflation
data and the stock market trading at
all-time highs. Does that beholden the
administration to sort of press forward
with tariffs? It's the latest so far
this morning. Stocks closing at record
highs just yesterday as President Trump
heightens his rhetoric on trade. The
president threatened Canada with a new
35% tariff on goods and told NBC is
eyeing blanket tariffs of 15 to 20%.
With those comments, equities retreating
by about a half of 1% so far this
morning. On the latest here's Tyler
Kendall. Morning Tyler.
>> Yeah, hey John. Good morning. Well,
these recent moves really indicate that
President Trump at the moment has no
plans to retreat when it comes to his
tariff plans. And our analysts at
Bloomberg Economics crunched the
numbers. And the average US tariff rate
is already up about 10.9 percentage
points compared to when President Trump
took office. It sits around 13.3%. So
now imagine that with a higher baseline
tariff rate between 15 and 20%. Not to
mention some of these individual country
tariffs reaching up to 50% when it comes
to President Trump's updated rate. Of
course, another updated escalation that
we got overnight was now a new threat of
35% against Canada. Importantly, a US
official does confirm to Bloomberg News
that USMCA compliant goods are still
expected to be exempt. That's going to
be absolutely critical since the bulk of
Canadian imports into the US are
typically USMCA compliant. Data shows us
it's about 60% of the goods that come
over the Canadian border. But still,
this isn't going to be welcome news for
the Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney,
who's tried to leverage his personal
relationship with President Trump to
negotiate. The thing is with Canada, as
well as a lot of our other trading
partners, is that the White House wants
a range of concessions. Look at the
letter that President Trump sent to
Canada last night. It talks about
fentanyl concerns, also market access
for US dairy farmers. But we know just
the other week talks basically went off
the rails because of the White House's
dismay over Canada's plans to collect
revenue from its digital services tax
which it ultimately had to abandon. John
just making this picture so much more
complicated of course are those sector
specific tariffs which is of course the
latest update that we can just add to
the list of updates from this week.
Canada is one of the largest exporters
when it comes to copper. No doubt
complicating negotiations as everyone
rushes towards that August 1st deadline.
>> Those levies still to come. Tyler, thank
you. If you want some comfort, Kellyanne
Shaw earlier this week, former Trump
trade negotiator came on the program,
sat around the table, walked in, and she
just said, "Get a beer, take a break.
It's going to be a messy few weeks
because the president's going to start
anchoring to the extreme." What have we
had so far? Big tariff on Canada, more
tariffs on the likes of copper, and
elsewhere, 15 to 20% blanket for anyone
who's not managed to negotiate anything.
The difference this morning is the
president is now pointing to the stock
market saying he's getting a green light
to go further or to even just keep it at
some of the rates that he's been
announcing in these letters and everyone
gets a letter and this is what the
letter says and the market's digesting
it. Okay. Does that raise the ante for
how much actually gets through in the
very end?
>> Here's the take from Janette Low of
Strategus, a bad company. Even if some
of the tariff levels issued in Trump
letters are designed to accelerate
negotiations with some countries, not
all countries will reach deals. Tariffs
are going higher from here. Janette
joins us now for more. Janette, welcome.
I just want to build on Lisa's point. Do
you think this record high the equity
market is a green light to keep pushing?
>> I think the important thing is that if
you look back at what happened on
Liberation Day, you know, Trump put very
aggressive tariffs on the table. We saw
a sharp stock market reaction and then
you had the threats of there could be,
you know, shortages on the shelves and
things of that nature, which then
started to make the president walk that
back. Now we have more fiscal policy
that we have the tax bill, the one big
beautiful bill act that has been enacted
that provides some fiscal policy
cushion, provides some relief to
consumers and businesses with regard to
the tariffs and now we have a stronger
stock market at this point. So the
market isn't looking like it's as
negatively impacted. So that does
embolden the president to go forward and
be more aggressive. Now, we're also not
seeing inflation show up yet, but at
some point, you know, there may be start
to see some increases in inflation in
the CPI data or even in company profits.
And that's something else that we're
watching quite closely is to see if
there starts to be more economic pain
that might show up. It might not be
until closer to that August 1st
deadline, but that then may make the
administration try to rethink how these
things get calibrated.
>> Janette, I want to pick up on something
John was asking earlier. How much
opposition is there to some of these
policies from the Democratic party given
the fact that you know it's kind of a
grand experiment and if the economy
doesn't roll over and the income from
tariffs really offsets the deficit who's
going to really lobby against these
right I mean so I think one of the
things that's going to be important is
at some point you know we do have
inventories that were pulled forward
ahead of some of these tariffs the
longer they're in that's going to change
the makeup of this picture so the
Democrats have an an issue where, you
know, they've wanted to put into effect
more um restrictions on trade in some
ways to help trade unions in the United
States. Um maybe not obviously to the
extent that Trump is doing, but it does
bring up the question of how do you then
roll these back? I think there is
definitely a difference when you saw the
Biden administration able to keep the
tariffs on China in place that Trump
imposed, but that's much different than
putting in say 20% tariffs on EU goods
or 35% tariffs on Canadian goods. So
there can start to be that push back
there. And you did see obviously earlier
this year Tim Kaine, senator from
Virginia, put forward legislation to
kind of walk these back. That did not
pass, but that is something that they're
probably going to push again. And if we
do see uh more economic slowdown because
of the tariffs, that could be something
that then gets more traction later on.
>> We initially thought coming into this
year that this would mostly be about
China and the rest of the negotiations
would be fairly easy. That of course has
been uh significantly challenged and now
we have the potential for some sort of
additional meeting between Chinese and
US delegates in the next couple of days
at the same time that the tariff rate on
Canada seems to be similar to the one on
China. How do you make sense of this?
What's the ultimate goal when it comes
to China?
>> Well, I think there's um we do still
have to keep a difference between what
is happening with China and what is
happening with the rest of the world.
You know, one of the things obviously
Trump did say that that Canadian tariffs
were based on fentinel, but also other
things, other market access issues,
mentioned dairy in the letter. We have
actually seen more fentinel coming
across the border if you look at the
most recent customs data. So that could
have been an impetus for this. The
digital services tax was also an irk for
the Trump administration that they
wanted to get taken away. But I think
that there ultimately, you know, if we
still have this carveout for goods that
are USMCA compliant, that is
significant. Um, you know, I think
there's going to probably be a push to
get more goods to fit that USMCA
compliance um setting so that they would
be able to enter the US tax tariff-free.
But there's definitely still a
difference with China. If you look at
China, we still have tariffs from
Trump's first term. Those were never
removed. Those were kept in place by
Biden. They were actually increased.
Trump has now increased them even
further. And if you look at a lot of the
trade deals that or the discussions that
have been occurring with the
administration, other countries, it's
also about country of origin. Is China
putting goods into Vietnam that then get
shipped to the United States? That is
something that the White House would
like to stop. So we still think that
there is much more aggressive tone
towards trade with China and trying to
get production out of China and into
other countries or back to the United
States. And that is still going to be a
difference going forward regardless of
the talks that may happen.
>> Janette Low of Strategus, a bad company.
Janette, thank you. That last point's so
important. We talked about this quite a
few times on this program. Democrats
complained about the president's tariffs
in his first term, kept them. In some
places, put them up. That's going to be
the test in the next general because
what you're also going to see this time
is some real tariff revenue. If these
levels stay, it's going to be hard to
campaign against that,
>> especially if that means raising taxes
on the other side or else having a
larger than expected deficit. This is
the conundrum that the next election
will be uh debating about
>> years away. Don't have to think about
that right now.
>> One and a half years.
>> Up next on the program, Eric and Ajaran
of UPS as JP Morgan CEO Jamie Diamond
warns markets are too complacent. Plus,
Yhira with your morning movers and a
downgrade for a top name in the copper
industry.
[Music]
three Thursday coming into Friday. So,
as of the close just yesterday, stocks
and bonds almost totally unchanged.
Yields on a two-year unchanged 10-year
unchanged. This equity market basically
unchanged, positive 0.02%.
This morning, pulling back by a half of
1% on the S&P, by a half of 1% on the
NASDAQ. This week was a good week to
take a vacation in the bond market. It
is interesting nevertheless. Let's split
this up in two, the front end and the
long end. some comfort this week at the
long end of the curve brought to you by
two auctions 10-year and 30-year supply
went okay. So, let's move on. Front end
of the curve. I'm not saying we won't
talk about it the rest of the year. We
will. At the front end of the curve, a
big debate starting to emerge. All of a
sudden, I think we are talking about
real descent in July. There were some
people who saw the FOMC minutes early
this week and said they were dated
because we just had the jobs data which
would make it difficult for the likes of
Governor Waller to make an argument for
a rate cut at the July meeting. Governor
Waller came out yesterday and
essentially told you there's a decent
argument for a July rate cut
>> and a lot of people in the market agree
with him and I think this is important
even as he pushes back and says look
this is not political we are seeing
disinflation around the margins there
are people in the markets including in
black rockcks black rockck's David Rogal
came out with the FOMC meeting minutes
and said that easily they could see a
July rate cut simply because the
inflation data has been relatively
benign and there are signs of a slowing
in the labor market. This isn't
necessarily political, but it's going to
be framed in a very political way.
>> Bond yields this morning are higher on a
30-year up by four or five basis points,
491. We'll never move on. Highest yields
on a 30-year going back to 2011 in
Europe, in France, in Germany. European
stories still brewing. 2 hours away from
the cash open in the equity market.
Let's get you some morning movers. Let's
cross over to Yhierra. Hey yhra.
>> Hi, John. Any wavering you're seeing in
the equity market is not showing up in
crypto. Take a look at these Cryptolink
stocks. Coinbase, Micro Strategy, Mara
Holdings, and Bit Digital are all rising
after Bitcoin surged to new highs now
topping $118,000.
What a run. Next time, next up, we have
Freeport McMarin. The stock is down 2
and a4%. I mentioned the American mining
giant a lot this week. That's because it
was thought that it would stand to
benefit from President Trump's 50%
tariffs on copper imports. But UBS just
gave it a downgrade. It is now down to
neutral. Analysts there saying that they
expect a softening in demand and
fundamentals to weigh on copper prices
over the next 6 months. So throwing a
bit of cold water on the optimism there.
And we end with SoFi Technologies. The
stock is down about 1% after TD Cowan
started coverage on the stock saying
giving it a hold rating and saying that
the stock looks fairly valued from here.
But this stock has had quite the run. It
is up nearly 40% in the past month as
investors caught wind of potential
policy changes coming to student loans
that could funnel billions of dollars to
private lenders like Sofi. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara in the
next hour. At a rate this morning,
President Donald Trump threatening a 35%
tariff on some Canadian goods. The
announcement coming after he told NBC
News he's eyeing blanket tariffs of 15
to 20% on many trading partners.
>> I keep going back to my big question. Is
this stock market pricing these tariffs
in and saying it's okay because the
stock market is not the economy and it's
a lot of big tech stocks that are
relatively immune? Or is this stock
market betting that the president's
going to back down? And if it's the
latter, then how much does this set up a
big game of chicken between the
president and the markets where there is
a clearing uh point and we could reach
that at some point in the next few
months?
>> Well, it's fair to say it's a bit of
both. Certainly feels that way at the
moment, doesn't it?
>> So, what is this real-time calibration?
President, oh, 13% the market's fine.
15% market sells off. Is he trying to
figure out kind of what the economy can
absorb by looking at the market?
>> It's fairly well understood this is a
negotiation. So there is a belief that
whatever the threats are now they will
be lower higher than the start of the
year but lower than the current threats.
So that's that little bit of the trade
story not fully following through. The
second piece of it is is the earnings
are okay and they take some comfort from
that at the moment and the data is just
about holding up.
>> Yeah. And just to build on that who's he
negotiating with the trading partners
the stock market corporate executives
and I think that we're going to see that
uh come clear. I I'm still struck by the
fact that Vietnam was unaware of the 20%
rate that they supposedly agreed to that
was then announced. There's a lot of
unknown and I think people are clinging
to the here and now which is the reason
why earnings will be so important.
>> Certainly the all-time high has given
him some confidence through the next 3
weeks.
>> Yeah, maybe rightly so.
>> That's for sure. A key Trump
administration official saying Fed chair
Jay Pal has mismanaged the central bank.
The director of the OM writing in a
letter to Pal, quote, the president is
extremely troubled by your management.
This pressure is coming from all sides
on this Fed chair.
>> And this tends to be the president's
tactic, right? It's sort of look for all
of the ways to ramp up pressure either
related to monetary policy or not to try
to jawbone into a position that seems
like uh it's more amendable to the White
House. I just wonder if the president
isn't looking to lose Powell to fire
him, is he looking for him to step down?
Is he looking to scapegoat him if there
is any faltering in the economy? Is he
looking just to make them some sort of
poster child of the debt problem and the
deficit? He kept talking about this and
I think Jim Biano really raised a good
point. President Trump seems to see the
US rate structure as being a credit one
not a sovereign one and keeps saying
that rates should be lower because of
the creditworthiness of the United
States whereas sovereign rates typically
are tied to growth and inflation which
is a completely different calculation
and that tension I think is really
there. in some ways is needless drama
because for most people they think this
Fed will be exactly where the president
wants them to be in September and
they'll start cutting interest rates and
that's only two meetings away for the
chairman of the Federal Reserve. He's
obviously in a tough spot. He has
pledged to anchor inflation expectations
first and foremost and he believes
that's his most important job. A lot of
people might agree with that view. The
pressure that's coming though from the
White House and I've heard this argument
made so many times makes it harder
optically for Fed share to transition
beyond his current message. In some
ways, it makes it harder for him to
reduce interest rates. And I think the
president deep down knows that because
we've seen him ultimately say as much in
public,
>> which means maybe he wants him to hold
rates where they are. I don't know. It's
a reason why Chris Waller has to come
out yesterday and say, "Look, this isn't
political." For him to even have to say
that raises a lot of questions for
people. Okay, thou who protest too much,
right? There is this sort of
undercurrent of questioning of the
validity of this institution and I think
some people are very concerned about. I
think we as journalists have a role to
play here to cut through some of the
noise. Not all arguments for lower rates
are political. That the argument that
Governor Waller has presented is an
economic one that we've heard from
economists on Wall Street as well. There
are credible economic arguments to lower
interest rates right now. Just as there
are going to sound like that two-handed
economist sitting on the fence, but just
as there are credible economic arguments
not to. And that's a worthy debate
that's taking place on the FOMC. I for
one am happy there's at least a debate
taking place on the Federal Reserve. I
like to see that division instead of the
group think that has really dominated
that institution for quite a while.
>> I welcome it as well. I don't welcome
the sort of questioning of the integrity
of an institution. I I mean look, you
can do that. I just think that that
might undermine their ability to really
uh monitor the inflation with their head
to do the right thing. And I think that
is the one real question here. You know,
are people going to be reluctant to cut
rates because of the political pressure?
Sort of ironically, uh that's a real
concern. Unless they're political and
they're running for that seat. But okay,
let's move on to this
>> analysis paralysis.
>> I know. Nvidia CEO Jensen Fang met with
President Trump at the White House just
yesterday. Sourc is telling us here at
Bloomberg. The meeting came just days
before Huang is traveling to guess where
to China.
>> Yeah. And he's going to be talking about
the importance to really free up some of
the chip sales and how an integrated
ecosystem across countries is actually
better for the AI development. Let's see
how this goes. We don't know what he's
going to talk about. Nonetheless, it's
sort of who's who who's got the
preference in the uh seauite of the
White House right now. Jen Wang seems to
have the front uh the front seat. So,
let's see what he does with it.
>> Ed Lllo, who led some of the reporting
here, is going to join us in about 30 40
minutes. We'll catch up with him a
little bit later in the program. Let's
turn to the banks. The JP Morgan boss,
the CEO, Jamie Diamond warning markets
are quote complacent on President
Trump's tariff plans. His comments
coming ahead of bank earnings season
kicking off just next week. Looking
ahead to those numbers, Erica Nagarian
of UBS. Erica, welcome to the program.
We've heard Jamie Diamond, Mr. Diamond,
talk about clouds on the horizon, storm
clouds, and then earnings come along and
it's blue blue clouds and sunshine. Do
you expect anything different next week?
>> No,
actually it's not only the clouds are
not just breaking in the second quarter
in terms of the results, but it looks
like blue sky as we think about the
second half of the year. So, think about
it this way. there was really a pause in
activity whether it was loan growth or
capital markets in all of April and
maybe into the first two weeks of May.
And then what you're seeing in the
regulatory data right now for loan
growth and what you're seeing in
industry data for investment banking is
that June was a super solid month. In
fact, we haven't quite had this start in
first half loan growth in some time. And
so you're going to have a pretty decent
result and you're going to talk about
strong pipelines in the second half of
the year. And by the way, what else
happened in June? You had a stress test
that unlocked on average 90 basis points
more of excess capital. And so, you
know, I look, Jaime is Jamie and he's
always going to be cautious and warning
us of the tail risks, but I think the
clouds have broken in the second
quarter. And you you are seeing blue
skies for the second half.
>> Blue skies. And did I call them blue
clouds? I might have done.
>> It's okay. It's Friday. Are you kidding?
I can barely see. I'm struggling. Lucky
we've got Erica with us. Erica, I'm
picking out the numbers from your
report, the rally we had off the low on
the KPW bank index of more than 38% so
far. Close to 40%. Erica, just how much
of that story that you described for the
second half, the so-called blue skies,
how much of that have we discounted so
far?
Look, what we essentially clawed back in
that rally is taking the tail risks off
the table in terms of tariff policy.
Like, you know, I listen to you, you and
Lisa, you know, talk about your um, you
know, your views. Who who knows, right?
But I think what the market is saying is
I think that risk whatever that was in
terms of the low April 4th that we were
pricing in is now off the table. What
may still have, you know, legs in terms
of continuation of the rally is the fact
that deregulation is just so much more
powerful, so much faster under Trump 2.0
than under Trump 1.0. I mean, we
essentially had to wait 21 months after
inauguration in Trump 1.0 to get our
first regulatory proposal. We had a
stress test proposal in April before
Michelle Bowman, the vice chair of
supervision, was even confirmed. And so
we have you know a pipeline of proposals
that have already happened whether it's
stress test or the supplementary
leverage ratio or SLR and then we have
more to come in terms of a more
comprehensive stress test reform gib
recalibration and you know we said
something you know 100 basis points of
you know lower capital minimum is
something like 150 basis points of extra
so I think that's why you know you can
continue to see the rally in the banks
is this ultimately then a regulatory
story or are we going to see
outperformers that we had been expecting
heading into this year and I'm thinking
about mergers and acquisitions or IPOs
in the investment banking space.
>> Yeah, I I think it's going to be both a
deregulatory and activity story. Um and
thus um you know we also said in a
report you may see a broadening of the
rally to scope regional banks who have
wolffully underperformed the money
center banks um really since election
day. And so, you know, I think what
you'll see is the broadening of the bank
rally because you will hear about the
these M&A pipelines getting better. And
like look, these regional banks not only
benefit from that in terms of some of
the small boutique investment banks that
they have within their companies, but
also what that could mean for loan
growth going forward.
>> Erica, looking forward to bank earning
season and hopefully we can catch up
next week. Thanks for dropping by. Eric
and Ajarin there of UBS looking ahead to
financial earnings about a week away.
Blue skies and sunshine. Got that right
this time.
>> Perfect.
>> For bank earnings next week.
>> They've got the deregulatory tailwind.
They have investment banking activity
that's been picking up. Trading activity
that's been robust even if it's a
trading environment that goes to
nowhere. Uh and then of course there's a
steeper yield curve which also benefits
them. So there are a couple of different
prongs that are all firing. So despite
some of the uh pretty dire commentary
from Jamie Diamond, expect the profits
not to reflect that. A close to 40%
rally off the lows on a KPW bank index
from the lows of April. Unreal. Futures
this morning pulling back a touch from
all-time highs. We're down by a half of
1%. With an update on stories elsewhere
with your Bloomberg brief, here's Lizzie
Burden. Hey, Lizzy.
>> Hey, John. Secretary of State Marco
Rubio met his Chinese counterparts on
the sidelines of the Azan talks in
Malaysia. It's the first in-person
meeting between the two since President
Trump returned to the White House. After
the meeting, Rubio told reporters odds
are high for a meeting between President
Trump and China's Xiinping. Elsewhere,
New York City Mayor Eric Adams raised
more than $1 million in his re-election
effort in a single night in a fundraiser
in Manhattan. It's a stark turnaround
for Adams, who in March reported raising
just over $18,000 in a two-month period.
In recent weeks, his campaign's been
boosted by donors and business leaders
opposed to the Democratic nominee Zoran
Mandani. And the original Hermes Birkin
bag sold for a record $10 million at an
auction in Paris. The 40-year-old black
leather handbag sold after a bidding war
that lasted more than 10 minutes. Tokyo
based designer goods reseller Valance
Japan bought the bag and said that it
will exhibit it as a piece of quote
global cultural heritage. And that's a
bit of a brief John
>> Lizzie. Thank you. More from Lizzie in
30 minutes time. Keep it together.
Bremo.
>> Well, I mean, first of all, two things.
That's where AMH is clearly to bit.
>> You know, I was missing her. I need I
need the tank from Amarie.
>> And then the second thing, and this was
pointed out um by Chris in the control
room is sort of the mom, Donnie, and
then the Birkin bag is fantastic. It's
sort of this wonderful contrast of 2025.
>> Is that what he's campaigning on later
on this year?
>> The $10 million Birkin bag.
>> Some people have got too much money.
>> Yeah. Well, that seems to be his take
that there shouldn't be any
billionaires, right?
>> So, I hear up next on the program, a
tale of two consumers. If
>> we look at other categories,
discretionary categories like
restaurants, you're seeing fewer, but
some households pull back completely,
but the people who are still going out
to eat are going out more often. You've
got a little bit of a disconnect, and
it's kind of a tale of two cities.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research
live from New York. You're watching
Bloomberg TV. Slow
[Music]
grind towards the weekend. Almost there.
Equity futures down about a half of 1%
on the S&P. Little change so far this
week coming into Friday at all-time
highs. Just a small pullback so far down
by 0.5 on the NASDAQ 100. Also under
surveillance this morning, it's a tale
of two consumers.
There are certain households, lower
income households who are pulling back
completely from making purchases and
travel. If we look at other categories,
discretionary categories like
restaurants on the other hand, again,
same analysis. you're seeing fewer, but
some households pull back completely,
but the people who are still going out
to eat are going out more often. You've
got a little bit of a disconnect and
it's kind of a tale of two cities.
>> So, here's the latest. Mixed messages
for the consumer coming from two
corporations. Delta Airlines restoring
guidance saying travelers are coming
back. Meanwhile, Amazon seeing a plunge
in Prime Day sales compared to last
year. To discuss, Stephanie Roth of Wolf
Research. Stephanie, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Who's got it right? Is it terrible or
great? Is it Amazon or Delta?
>> It's always somewhere in the middle. So,
I think what we're seeing is services
were hurt in the first half of the year,
largely driven by concerns around the
economic outlook. A lot of that super
discretionary. So, people pulled back
there, especially when it came to
travel. That's going to start
stabilizing through the back half of
this year. And then people pulled
forward their demand for goods because
they were concerned about tariffs. So,
now we're going to have the reversal of
that where the services side of the
economy gets a little bit better and
there's a little bit of an air pocket on
the goods front. There's a much more
simplistic way of explaining what John
just said, which is people are buying
$10 million Birkin bags and then they're
voting for socialist policies because
you have the tale of two consumers,
right? I mean, kind of what we were
discussing before. Is that overly
simplistic or do you see that gap
widening in terms of the ability of
consumers to keep spending on the lower
income side as well as the higher income
side?
>> Yeah, I think I think that gap will
persist. I don't think it's necessarily
going to get materially worse. Of
course, at the very low end, they are
certainly hurt by tariffs more so than
other folks. But we'll see the the
low-end consumer continue to to remain,
you know, fairly sluggish, but the rest
of the economy should be should be okay.
And it's going to largely depend on the
labor market to the extent that the
labor market remains okay. We don't see
layoffs picking up materially. Then the
consumer should spend, albeit at a
fairly slowish pace, somewhere around
one and a half%.
>> So just to extrapolate this a little
further and get a little bit, you know,
existential because it's Friday. It's
existential Friday. There's been this
sort of overlay of a theme where white
collar jobs have been disappearing and
there are fewer of them and they're
higher paid and blue collar jobs are
actually expanding and people are able
to get blue collar jobs because there
are immigrants who are leaving the
country or who aren't coming in as
quickly and because there is a much
bigger demand for that. Are we actually
seeing that in any of the economic data
that will actually boost the lower and
middle income end and will actually give
some sort of tailwind frankly to a lot
of the consumerf facing companies?
>> Yeah, I think that's a really good point
and the latest the latest jobs print
might have been the first indication of
that. We saw downward pressure on the
unemployment rate. Yes, the the the
driver between nativeborn versus
foreignb born is not entirely clear, but
I think what we're starting to see is
that there's some funky things under the
surface that's really putting downward
pressure on the unemployment rate as a
result of of this reduction in
immigration. That's going to put upward
pressure on wages for bluecollar
workers, which could start to help that
feed through the data. Granted, a lot of
the the major changes on immigration
only happened at the end of May. So,
we're really just starting to see the
effects of that and it should take
throughout the course of the summer,
perhaps into Q3 to become more
abundantly clear.
>> You've referred to three different
sources of inflation through this
conversation so far. Goods, services,
and labor. How is CPI next week going to
capture that story?
>> Yeah. So, I think we're going to start
to see inflation creep up a bit. We're
looking for 26 on core. June should be
kind of modest compared to the next
couple of prints that we're going to
get. And it's important to flag that
financial services should also be a big
source of upward pressure. So that's one
thing we didn't even even talk about,
but that's been pulling downward
pressure on core PCE in the last couple
of prints. It's very much going to
reverse on the back of strength in in
equity markets. So what we're looking at
is a string of core PC of.3% or above
for the next couple of prints, which
makes September a really difficult
backdrop for the Fed to be cutting.
>> So you think it's hard for the Fed to
cut in September at a time when the
likes of Governor Waller is going around
saying, "Hand up, let's go. Might have
to cut rates as soon as the next couple
of weeks."
>> He's also saying, "Hand up, I'll take
the job as Fed chair." So there's some
>> You think it's political? When he sits
there and says it's not political, you
think it is.
>> Yeah, I think he's buying for the the
the chair job. He doesn't seem to be
towards the top of the list, but and I
think he would be a good candidate for
it, but I think he's trying to get the
job. I think that's the main message
there. The Fed does want to cut. They
they are looking for an opportunity to
cut a couple more times. I just don't
think that the the data are going to be
consistent with that by September. One
of the reasons why there is a legitimate
economic argument that we've been
hearing to be cutting rates sooner than
later is because there are sources of
disinflation and we are seeing that and
housing prices is one of them that we
keep pointing to. Why is that not fair
given that it's about a third of the
CPI?
>> Yeah. And but it's it it tends to move
fairly slowly. it's going to continue to
kind of ratchet down and and in this
print in particular, we actually think
just given the volatility in in owner's
equivalent rent and rent, we actually
think it could bounce back a little bit,
at least just temporarily, but the rest
of the inflation metrics are going to
move in the other direction. So, sure,
housing could could be decelerating, but
when you get goods prices picking up,
travel starting to rebound a little bit,
that's just a tough backdrop for the
next couple of prints. Bank of America's
Michael Hartner came out earlier this
morning and said when we look back the
2020s are going to be an inflationary
decade that reverse a lot of what we had
seen over the past four decades of
disinflation. Do you think that the
evidence has borne that out or do you
think the jury is still out to really
understand how this is all going to
shake out? What the ramifications from
supply chain disruptions from the
pandemic will be and how much tariffs
will re really rejigger that? No, I
think this is just a fairly temporary
second inflation shock and we're going
to be looking in a year and a half time
we're going to be m moving back down
towards 2% on inflation and this will
will not really be a big issue. Granted,
for the next couple of months, it's just
difficult for the Fed to cut just
because our temporary inflation uh
upward pressure.
>> So, you think Governor Waller does have
a credible argument here for lower
rates. The one he's articulating, you
think he might be running, okay, that's
your opinion, but ultimately
underpinning that is a credible argument
for lower interest rates.
>> There's a credible argument for lower
interest rates. I think now is tough to
to sort of rush into it just given
inflation should be elevated for the
next couple months and there's not a
rush. The economy is okay and it's
proved to be not that interest rate
sensitive. So there's not that much harm
in waiting a couple couple of months
until we just see where inflation
ultimately settles.
>> I still remember when Bill Dudley came
out years and years ago and said Fed
funds might have to go through 5% and
everyone said 5% good luck this economy
will crater. Didn't happen.
>> And part of that is because a lot of
people had already extended out a lot of
their personal maturities. how much it
really will be stimulative if they do
cut. You could say on one hand it's not
a big problem that you can wait but you
could also afford to cut then especially
if it's politically uh expedient.
>> Just before you go just quickly when's
the first cut? What month have you got
penciled in on the calendar?
>> I think we're talking mid2026.
>> You think the first cut is mid26?
>> Yeah, I think cuz I think we're going to
see inflation a little bit elevated
here. Then growth is going to remain
pretty strong. We're going to have
positive stimulus from the fiscal bill
and it's going to be just a tough
backdrop for them to cut. Eventually
they will. They they certainly want to
and it makes perfect sense for them to
get there. It's just going to take some
time.
>> And we'll have a new Fed chair in the
middle of 2026.
>> You know who agrees with her? Bill
Dudley, the person who thought that
there'd be 5% interest rates.
>> Stephanie, it's good to see you. Thanks
for stopping by. Stephanie Roth there of
Wolf Research. Coming up next, Jose
Maniah of BNY. Angelo Zeno of CFR. Steve
Rashid of Missouo. Walter Pisik of
Lightshed Partners calling for a change
at the top of Apple. A conversation in
the next hour.
[Music]
>> What started out as just a relief rally
is starting to become something real.
>> The markets are adjusting. There's no
panic so far.
>> If you're looking at what's been working
in markets the last couple of years,
it's quality stocks.
>> The market is pricing it a friendly sort
of mix of growth, inflation, and policy.
Equities and risk are discounting the
here and now.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. The third
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance starts
right now. And your scores look like
this. Equity futures on the S&P pulling
back from record highs. We're down by
0.5%. Similar move on the NASDAQ 100
down by.5. The Russell this morning down
by 0.9. As we work our way into the
weekend, look ahead to next week.
Fireworks CPI Tuesday alongside earnings
from JP Morgan, Wells Fargo, and City.
>> Yeah, the earnings to me really are
front and center. CPI, of course,
revenue looking for any type of tariff
ramifications coming through that tariff
related inflation or not. The earnings
that will give maybe the better picture.
Do we see a repeat of things are stable
all Ed Bastion over at Delta or do we
see beginnings of a sign that there's
some sort of hit to the economy? If we
don't see that, which is what's widely
expected, how much more can this market
rally?
>> Eric of UBS said blue skies and sunshine
for the financials next week after a
rally of almost 40% off the April low.
Let's go with Jamie Diamond. Let's think
about Ed Bastian. Ed Bastion of Delta is
making the argument that businesses now
have more certainty than they did in the
first quarter
>> and part of that stems from the one big
beautiful bill. I mean this to me is the
certainty that a lot of people are
looking at to give a sense of the tax
planning of what kind of investment they
could potentially do. Key question will
be does it give them the stability to
make large investments that might hinge
on supply chains and that I think might
be something that some of the bank
executives could answer.
>> Yeah. Compare that to Diamond who's
talked about businesses sitting on their
hands. Are they still sitting on their
hands or do we see that pick up in
activity in the second half that many of
the bank bulls think we will see
>> and this is what we've seen with respect
to recent acquisitions even with Kellogg
for example the Nutella and Froot Loops
I keep thinking about that and thinking
why would anybody do that but going
forward how much more can we see of
certain companies that see benefit of
being larger and could see enough of
some of the noise dissipating to really
have that conviction and make those
investments a
>> fantastic lineup of guests so far this
morning including the conversation we
had about 5 10 minutes ago. Stephanie
Roth of Wolf Research making a case for
the first interest rate cut to come in
the middle of next year 2026 and looking
for firmer inflation reports going into
a tricky September meeting. I don't
think that's what this market and many
people are looking for going into next
year.
>> You know, this goes to the question and
you've been asking it all morning and
rightly so. How much does this equity
market depend on rate cuts? And what
we've heard from the bulls is it doesn't
at all and and it actually can continue
with the gains regardless of any kind of
rate cuts. A number of people have said
that's not true. You need the
disinflation to continue in order to
support the rest of the environment. But
ultimately that's the question. Is
Stephanie's view prohibitive to further
gains on the equity market or is it
supportive because the stability in the
economy is what will actually keep
driving the equity market higher?
>> Equity so far this morning negative by
0.5%. And coming up this hour, Jose
Maniah of BNY on investing in a volatile
environment. Steve Rashuto of Missou on
a shockproof economy. And Walter Pisik
of light shed partners calling for
disruptive change at Apple. That is
mustwatch later this hour. We begin this
hour with stocks lower as President
Donald Trump floats a higher global
tariff rate. Jose Maniah of BNY
Investments and Wealth writing this.
Volatility is here to stay. Stay
invested and look for the right
diversification. Jose joins us now for
more. Jose, good morning.
>> Hey, good morning. Just want to pick up
on that first line. Volatility is here
to stay. Why is that?
>> Look, I think volatility it clearly we
we're at an all-time high or peak in
terms of the noise in the markets. If
you just think about back to the
beginning of the year, our team kind of
added around 26 27 different policy
changes or news cycles that really kind
of impacted or or jolted the markets.
Yet the markets have kind of powered
powered through that. Right. I think I
was I was on one of your shows earlier
in the year saying around hey we you
should not be risk off and this was like
right after liberation day because of
like what we're seeing in the
fundamentals and trying to look past
this noise seeing a white house and
administration there's a little bit
around the carrot and the stick right we
saw a lot of the stick year now you're
seeing more of the carrot and again the
markets are are responding to that so
it's less about today when we talk to
our clients around hey what should you
be invested in or not or what but it's
more about what are the solutions you're
looking for. You're seeing more and more
of that in the industry whether it's
technology with kind of SMA capabilities
what you're doing with MATLO portfolios
which we do in BNY advisors uh across
the board. It is about leading staying
invested through these times but kind of
understanding what outcomes you're
looking to get.
>> Well, let's run with that. Stay invested
long-term time horizon. Got it. What are
these strategic anchors you're offering
people to get them comfortable with
doing just that?
>> Well, I think again it depends on their
needs and outcomes. In some cases, it
might be, hey, they're they're they're
looking for income, right? Like we
create a lot of like what we call like,
you know, bomb portfolio in a box or
personal bond portfolios with our
insight uh investment platform where
it's like we're getting very customized
in how we deal with our clients. It
might depend on when are you looking to
retire, is there a wedding, is there
educational needs and these things. So
whe you might need principal protection,
I've got a new niece on the way. In that
case, I'd be like, hey, you should just
go long equities. So again, we could
spend a lot of time thinking about the
noise, the volatilities out there. If
you look at it hasn't paid off to just
say I'm going to stay off the markets
and there's still a lot of cash out
there. But again, that idea of I'm going
to stay invested, but am I really
focused on my solutions and my outcomes
versus call it a 6040 type of portfolio.
>> Congratulations on your incoming niece
and going all equities in response. I am
>> for her. Yeah, for her, for the niece,
not necessarily the parents, but I am
curious about how much going forward the
ballast for income comes from the same
place. You said not necessarily a 6040
portfolio. Let's say someone is
conservative and looking for income.
Does it still come from US treasuries?
Does it still come from credit? Or do
you have to look elsewhere for that type
of ballast?
>> No, I I think the markets are becoming a
lot more efficient and they are looking
elsewhere across the board. Again, we've
seen the advent of uh private credit. It
kind of plays a big part of this. You
saw with the Secure Income Act where now
annuities uh and guaranteed income
contracts are being uh allowed to be
used in 401k portfolios. I think these
are all important legislations that are
all kind of recognizing the incredible
uh crisis we have from a retirement
perspective, not just, you know,
globally, but definitely in this
country. So, you you need to kind of
look more broadly. There's a little bit
of skepticism in younger generations. It
seems there's this concern that maybe
the same kind of uh gains that the older
generation saw in their portfolios are
not going to subsist in their
generation. Do you think that it will do
you think the returns will be the same
in the next 10 years that it has been
for the past 30 years for a generation
that has gotten wealthy off stock market
returns?
>> You know, I don't. And what I mean by
that is if you look back over the last
20 years, you would have been for all
this discussion around different
investments, hedge funds, private
equity, the end of the day, you would
have been just fine doing pretty a very
low fee kind of like passive equity
funding. You would have been just fine.
I don't think that's the case in the
next 10 to 20 years. It's just a lot
more volatility. There's a lot more
volatility out there. Um I think returns
are going to be more measured. Yet, it's
again finding your spots. Again, it's
not about anymore. Can I find the
strategy that just I can sit back and
it's just going to grow 15 20%. Um, it's
being able to do the work around how you
diversify your portfolio.
>> I applaud the risk appetite of the
younger generation looking at things
like crypto. Don't you?
>> Well, where else do you think
>> their risk appetite is far higher than
it was when we were growing up,
>> but maybe not necessarily for the same
instruments. And this is exactly where I
was going to go. It's for Bitcoin. It's
for hedge funds. It's for NFTTS. It's
not necessarily for some of these other
instruments. And are they correct? Yeah,
I would actually, you know, slightly
disagree, John, a little bit that I
think if you look at the younger
generation, they tend to be a lot more
riskaverse in terms of buying a home.
They're buying their first home. Well,
that's an affordability issue.
Affordability, they just can't afford
it.
>> Yeah. But I I have conversations with
some of these folks, you know, including
in my family, where, you know, they're
they're heavy in cash, but if you look
at their portfolio, what they're
invested in, they are invested in crypto
or these things. So, there's a there's a
there's a lean here to technology and
some of these quote unquote cool things
versus, look, just put your money in a
401k and max it out. Hey, by the way, do
a balanced portfolio, set it and forget
it. That stuff I think there's a lot
more risk aversion.
>> Can we get your ideas on what to do with
bonds? This is what Michael Hard of Bank
of America had to say this morning. Best
performer decade to date, gold, worst,
treasuries. Calls it a decade of
inflation. What should you do for the
decade ahead? And what do you do with
that bond portfolio? You talked about
income. A lot of people are very worried
about inflation hanging around for too
long.
>> Yeah. Look, I I I think uh we've got a
more kind of constructive view on
inflation. It's why we still see the
markets kind of maybe topping out or the
white end for us is around 6,400 uh S&P.
But look, I think this is a time where
like there's likely to be more like rate
cuts coming, right? You can debate
whether that matters or not. You were
just having that conversation. I think
it's a good time to lock in yields uh
today. And and again for for us it's not
necessarily just about what's going on
with treasuries or right it's it's again
how are you looking at your overall
platform and portfolio there's a lot of
different kind of characteristics to to
take into account.
>> Jose appreciate your time.
>> Thank you.
>> Thanks for giving it to us. Thank you
Jose Mai there of BNY. Similar argument
on income from Emily Roland a little bit
earlier this morning. There's value
there and actually it will serve a
similar for well not necessarily the
same kind of role that has played in the
past but it will still provide income
and that's the reason why people have
been going into credit. That's the
reason why people have been going into
treasuries. You're actually getting
something for them. So why don't you get
them now even after some of the uh
biggest consecutive losses that we've
seen in a generation.
>> Even with credit spread super super
tight. How many times do we hear the
same argument?
>> And it's what's borne out this this year
in the market. I mean let's just call it
what it is. It's actually been uh the
ongoing grinding tighter in that spread
picture despite some of the naysayers.
>> Credit spreads near the tights of the
year. Equities coming into Friday.
Alltime highs. Check out the Treasury
market this morning. Yields high by four
basis points so far. The third year at
491, the 10-year at about 438. Let's
give an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Let's
cross over to Lizzie Burden. Hey Lizzy.
>> Hey John. President Trump is threatening
a 35% tariff on some Canadian goods. The
tariff is an increase from the current
25% tariff level and would take effect
on August 1st. It'd be imposed on US
imports from Canada that aren't shipped
under the terms of the US Mexico Canada
agreement. Trump also told NBC News that
he's eyeing blanket tariffs of 15 to 20%
on most trading partners. And President
Trump plans to visit Texas Hill Country
today where at least 120 people were
killed in last week's flash floods and
more than 170 are still missing.
President Trump is expected to get an
aerial tour of some of the hard hit
areas and met with first responders and
relatives of flood victims. And Apple is
planning a release of of a line of new
products during the first half of next
year, including a new low-end iPhone,
multiple iPads, and upgraded Macs. The
budget smartphone dubbed the iPhone 17e
will be a follow-up to a $599 model that
Apple launched earlier this year. And
that should be my beast, John. John.
>> Hey, Lizzy. Thank you. More from Lizzy
in about 30 minutes time. Up next, the
morning calls. Plus, Bloomberg's Ed
Lello and Angelo Zeno of CFR as Nvidia's
Jensen Wang takes a visit to the White
House live from New York. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
This is going to be the core of the
debate as we get into the second half.
is is there room for the Fed to cut much
more aggressively in the event that the
economy slows this uh tariff inflation
story turns out to be transitory um or
will they have to remain on hold for the
entirety of the year to fight off an
economy that's starting to overheat
Husini of Columbia Thread Needle making
the argument the second half of this
year could be tricky for this Federal
Reserve Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research
making the argument that you might not
see rate cuts until the middle of next
year from New New York City this
morning. Good morning. Equity futures so
far negative by 0.5% on the S&P. On the
NASDAQ, we're down by 4/10en of 1%.
That's the price action. Here's some
morning calls. First up, Piper Sandler
raising its price target on Amazon to
250, citing the Prime Day sales doubling
in length to 4 days, bouncing back on
that stock by 3/4 to 1%. Your second
call from Wedbush, upgrading Cinear to
outperform, saying the company is poised
to benefit from a consistent slate of
movie releases. That stock is up by
2.5%. And finally, TD Cowan upgrading
Texas Instruments to buy, saying the
chip maker is positioned to outperform
in either a sharp or gradual recovery.
The stock is up by.5%. Also, let's stick
with tech. Nvidia CEO Jensen Wang
meeting with President Donald Trump at
the White House yesterday. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg that Hang
is set to travel to China in the coming
days. Helping to lead our reporting,
Bloomberg's Ed Ledllo, and he joins us
now for more. Ed, what was the purpose
of that meeting? Well, it's interesting
because we don't know what they
discussed, although the president took
to to social media, right, to talk about
the growth in Nvidia shares um and and
the $4 trillion milestone. What was
interesting is earlier this week, Jess
Wang went on MSNBC and in the course of
that interview, he made the argument
that the American technology stack in
which Nvidia currently holds a monopoly
in the market for AI chips, is akin to
the US dollar, right? The US dollar is
the world's reserve currency. And the
message that he was kind of putting out
was, you know, we want our technology to
be the world's technology reserve and
therefore China needs to have access to
it. And he's kind of been consistent on
that, John. Um, you know, it's not a
matter of tariffs or penalties. It's an
an issue of export control. And he has
basically consistently said 50% of the
research uh and researchers focused on
AI are from or in China. and it's better
they have our tech than their own tech
if we want to stay in control of this
field.
>> Ed, any sign whatsoever that that
argument is actually resonating with
this White House?
>> So, there's reports that Nvidia has
decided to proceed with a specific
designed for China chip that may come in
September. Um, they previously the
situation was that they required a
license for their existing China chip.
They decided not to pursue that license.
And what Jensen Hanger told me, if you
remember, is you can't engineer any more
performance out of these things unless
you start from the ground up. Nvidia has
not officially confirmed that. Um, you
know, Jensen Huang regularly goes to
China. They have many employees in
China, but it is notable, our reporting,
that he's going to meet with the with
the commerce ministry. And you know, one
would imagine um and based in like a lot
of the conversations I've had with with
big investors as well that that Jensen
uh is very fixed on this idea that
they're an American company that
conforms with American laws. Um and and
you know, I'd suggest that in that
conversation with the president, he he
would say that, but also knows he has to
go to China and get something out of it.
Reassure customers that basically have
had their access to that technology cut
off.
>> Just before you go, one final question,
different company, similar theme. Apple.
This came from light sheds Walder Pisik.
He's going to join us later this hour.
AI will reshape industries across the
global economy. Apple risk becoming one
of its casualties and he's raising
questions about the future of Tim Cook.
What would you like to know from Wall
later on this morning?
>> Well, I'd ask him who on earth would
replace Tim Cook. I the short list of
candidates for that role is very
interesting. Mark German reports all the
time, right, about the change in unit
leaders and and lieutenants, but the CEO
is a different thing. The reporting on
this new lineup of devices next spring
is really interesting. It's very
analogous to Tesla. The future may be
AI, but in the near term, the bread and
butter of revenue growth is in the is in
refresh of devices. And quite clearly,
they're being aggressive based on Mark's
reporting to get more out there into the
world at various price points and
continue getting people to have Apple
products in their hands so that when AI
does come, um, they'll be able to use it
somehow. But on the CEO question, ask
him who. Um, I'd love to to build a
short list. Apple down this morning by
0.6%. Ed, thank you sir. Ed Ledllo with
the latest provocative piece from W
Pisik this week
>> and it highlights how much Apple has
been left behind by the dynamism that
we've seen in the big tech in the United
States and a real existential angst
there about what they can do to really
turn that around.
>> Do they have to get a little bit more
inquisitive? Do they have to make a big
buy, a big purchase?
>> Do they have to do what Meta is doing
and maybe do that big purchase in the
form of signing bonuses back for their
employees that were poached by Meta just
in the past few weeks? Let's build on
some of these conversations. Angela Zeno
of CF joins us now for more. Angela, I
want to start with Nvidia. A theme of
your research over the past few months
is that Nvidia has derisked the China
story. Could you just explain to all of
us how they've gone about doing just
that?
>> Yeah. No, thanks John. So, you know, for
the most part, you kind of look at just
their most recent results and they've
essentially come out and zeroed out the
potential for China when they've
actually also said that there was an $8
billion opportunity in the quarter that
they're missing out on because of China.
So, we know there's a massive
opportunity and a growing opportunity
out in China, but in the same respect,
we know they've derisked it because
they've essentially zeroed it out. Um,
and we'd expect China at this point to
represent less than 5% of sales from the
company. um essentially all of it coming
from, you know, gaming and and what have
you. So, um that's what we mean by it
being drisked. I'd also say this, you
know, when we saw the reversal of the
the EDA software uh restrictions kind of
lifted last week, I think that is also
kind of stim uh increasing the sentiment
out out there or belief that potentially
um you know, Nvidia does have that
opportunity to get back into China. You
just kind of heard um Ed talk about that
opportunity as well in terms of um a new
potential chip out there. So um I think
you when you kind of look at the
dynamics right now the the it's tilting
more favorably towards uh Nvidia
potentially getting back in there with
the respect that right now there's
nothing coming from that uh that region
as well. Angelo, there's sort of this
deeper psychological question and it's
been underpinned by what Ed was
outlining from Jensen Hong, what he was
saying over the weekend that ultimately
if the US wants to be dominant in this
sphere which is like being the reserve
currency that it needs to allow a
greater degree of sales into China. Do
we have any sense of how much that
message is resonating in the White
House?
I mean, I think it has to be resonating
to some extent because I mean, it seems
like, you know, at least right now that
the Jensen's got Trump's ears in some
respect. I mean, they're they're having
face tof face meetings. You know, I
think that's definitely a good thing
more so than I think, you know, some of
these other tech leaders are having. So,
um, you know, I think it's resonating to
an extent. I think Trump um, you know,
definitely respects um, Jensen. And um
at the end of the day, I mean, just
looking at some of the recent moves that
we've seen again with with that software
ban um and and just potentially using um
Nvidia's chip as a bargaining ch uh you
know, their business as a bargaining
chip like we saw with Saudi Arabia. I
think just it points to the fact that
hey listen um it is resonating that you
know they they they're not necessarily
looking to block Nvidia out across the
globe. Um but they do want to leverage
Nvidia um with these trade deals out
there. So I think it it's more along the
lines of investors at this point being
patient. But I do think ultimately um
you do see Nvidia again back into China
as well as other regions of the globe. I
wonder how much it's important for
analysts like yourself to see Jensen
Hang with the ear of the president and
who doesn't have the ear of the
president and I'm thinking of Tim Cook
of Apple who seems to be falling off the
uh bandwagon when it comes to his uh his
favorability in the president's eyes.
How much do you agree with Walter Pisak
of Lightshed? As John was talking about
this idea that this is somebody who no
longer really has the creative or even
diplomatic helm of Apple in a way that
benefits the company.
>> Yeah. I mean, listen, we we are a little
bit worried about Apple in the sense
that, you know, historically they've
been very slow to move to changes,
right? I mean, and and it's worked in
the past in the sense of, hey, listen,
we want to make sure we get this right.
um and we're not going to be, you know,
quick to move and we don't necessarily
need to be the first ones out there.
However, in an AIdriven environment,
things move really, really fast. And um
in that type of environment, I do think
Apple needs to change to an extent. Now,
it doesn't necessarily mean that they
have to um you know, get rid of Tim
Cook. I'd probably say that's that's
something you don't want to do at this
point in time. And the reason for that
is um because we are seeing a number of
departures at the company at the at the
very least right now. I think you need
to hold on. You want to hold on to Tim
Cook um and and have that solidified at
least at the CEO level. So um but I do
think changes need to be made. I do
think the company needs to work faster.
Again, does it need to be done via some
M&A um just acquiring more talent the
way um Meta has. I think all those
should be on the table at this point in
time, but the most important thing right
now I think is really kind of getting
the Siri integration across the app
store right. Um and they need to get
that done here within the next 9 to 12
months. um to at least restore some
credibility within the company and with
some of their developers.
>> Do you think that's achievable with the
tools and the talent they have in house
right now? Angelo, I think that's the
ultimate question.
>> Um to be honest with you, I don't know.
The the answer probably is probably no.
And and I think the the reason I say
that right now is because they are
looking elsewhere in terms of you know
the perplexities of the world and what
have you to at least fill a void or even
you know via anthropic or an open AI.
So, um I I think Apple realizes they are
behind. Um but it it's actually a good
thing that at least they've realized
that and they're trying to do something
about it. And as long as they can fill
that void, whether it be, you know,
temporary or what have you. Um that's
extremely important, I think, for
investors at this point in time.
>> Angela, appreciate your time as always.
Thank you, sir. Angela Zena there of CFR
on both Nvidia and on Apple. What a
piece joining us in about 20 minutes.
>> Yeah, seeing Tim Cook as the departure
that they would need. Do they need a
departure or do they need an
acquisition? Or do they need something
of both? And if they do need to make an
acquisition, who would lead it if it
wasn't Tim Cook to Ed uh to Ed's point?
>> And can they close it or does the
regulator step in and have something to
say about that?
>> Yeah, that's sort of the brilliance of
the meta plan, right? The backdoor
acquisition, the back door, just sort of
acquire the talent and you essentially
have the company.
>> Walter Pisik later this hour. Don't miss
that conversation. Up next, Steve
Rashuto of Missouo on a shockproof
economy. Plus, Yhara Arnold with your
morning movers and another potential
deal this time in the food space. Live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
60 minutes away from the opening bout.
Two days of gains into Friday, pulling
back by just 6/10 of 1% so far this
morning. We're down by half of 1% on the
NASDAQ 100. With your morning movers,
let's cross over to Yahara Arnard for
more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. We start with Performance
Foods surging on takeover speculation.
It is up 6.7%. We are reporting that US
Foods is exploring an acquisition that
would create a $100 billion food
distribution giant. Both companies
supply food to restaurants and stores
across North America. And it feels like
we're hearing more and more about these
deals or potential deals, which brings
us back to what Delta CEO Ed Bastion had
to say yesterday that there is clarity
to invest and that the environment is
incredibly stable. So these trends
speaking to that. Next up, we have
Freeport Macaron. The American mining
giant is down 2.6%. We've mentioned this
stock a lot this week because it was one
that was understood that could stand to
benefit from President Trump's copper
tariffs, but UBS just hit it with a
downgrade to neutral. Analysts there
expect a softening in demand and
fundamentals to weigh on copper prices
over the next 6 months. And we end with
Levi Strauss. It is surging up 7 and
3/4%. The jeans giant hiked its fullear
revenue forecast, saying that despite
all the added costs from tariffs, it
sees sales rising 2% this year. That's
due to strong demand and a strategy
shift that's been working, which is to
provide headto toe denim. So, not just
focusing on jeans, but also denim
accessories and clothing. John, I'd love
to see you in headtotoe denim.
>> Yeah, I don't know about that. What do
they call that? Canadian tuxedo. Isn't
that what they call that? I think that's
what they call that. I think that's
really cool.
>> I think it's a 1980s uniform.
>> I just have no interest in it
whatsoever.
>> I think you would actually like a Merse
man purse in denim.
>> Yeah. No,
>> absolutely has your name written all
over it. Y%
>> thanks for that. I think
>> that's a hard note from me. Stand down
line this week. There's been many
civilian never underestimate corporate
America. And you're seeing signs of that
even from the likes of Levis and other
companies too.
>> Yeah. and even Aritzia, they came out
and they said that they are happy that
the tariffs on Chinese goods weren't
higher and that's one reason why they
don't have to raise prices and they
actually are boosting expectations. You
look at all of this and it explains why
there is a sense that US corporations
can adapt to anything including 10 to
15% tariffs or dare I say 15 to 20%
tariffs. I guess that's the real
question.
>> TK's favorite phrase. He's always said
it for years and years and years.
>> I know
>> they adapt and they
>> adjust. There we go. and I've been
repeating it and I feel like a little
Tom Keane clone because I keep repeating
that phrase because he's correct and
we've seen that time and time again.
>> This equity market close to alltime
highs. Looking ahead to data next week,
CPI in focus. We've had four months of
softer than expected core inflation. Can
we make it month five? Joining us now is
Bloomberg's Mike McKe. Good morning,
Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, that's one of
the key questions out there for American
companies. and I'm here in Jackson at
the Global Interdependence Center's
Teton Economic Forecast. Uh the this
conference looked like the Bloomberg TV
green room. Uh everybody that you have
on the air on a regular basis was here
and the general feeling was uh at this
point that you should keep buying in the
equity markets. The equity markets will
be the ones that react the most if and
when we get this inflation that's
expected. But we haven't got it so far.
The forecast for Tuesday is that we get
a slight increase in prices, but
everybody's going to be looking at
what's below it. And really, July is not
on the table. Take a look at what's
ahead of us. Now, we've got three jobs
reports. We've got three CPI reports
before the September meeting, just one
of each before the July meeting. And
according to most of the people here,
uh, they're not expecting to see a whole
lot of evidence that the inflation rate
is going up or that jobs are going down
before the September meeting. Once you
get the 3 months in there, then uh, they
feel there's a chance you need to start
looking at different alternatives to
investing. But for right now, stay in
there.
>> Mike, noise or signal? I think we've had
this debate over the last several
months. And when you talk to people
about the goods economy, they say things
like, "We've got all this pre-taviff
inventory that we've been working
through. Don't take it as signal. It's
noise." And what you're going to see in
the months later is a pick up in prices
again. Do you let much weight to that
theory, Mike?
>> Well, the theory makes a lot of sense
and it may come true. The biggest issue,
John, is that the president keeps
putting off the tariffs, giving
companies a chance to continue to hold
on to those inventories or restock them
a little bit. The reports we've had, of
course, from ports of Los Angeles,
people like that, is that we're seeing
far fewer imports. And if that's the
case, it will start to show up. And when
the tariffs go on, then it should start
to show up in a much bigger way. In the
May uh P CPI report, we saw washing
machine prices go up because the
president raised tariffs on steel. Once
tariffs go in for other products, then
Americans are going to see some higher
prices whether companies can absorb a
lot of it or not.
>> Mike, thank you. Just one final
question. Why is it always the Grand
Tetons? Why is it always Jackson?
>> You know, I have a theory about that.
Now, we talked to somebody who's on the
town council here, and they pointed out
that Jackson is uh Jackson uh is in
Teton County. Teton County is the
wealthiest county in the United States.
There's uh an awful lot of billionaires
who live here and so it attracts uh
people who in uh manage their money.
>> There we go. Michael McKe, thank you,
sir. That's a decent explanation. It's
not the fishing, it's because of the
money.
>> Okay, that actually would make more
sense. The problem with that, with all
due respect, Mike, is that this has been
the case since the 1970s. They've been
going to Jackson Hole for a long time.
So, the fact that this is now the hub of
economic theory. It's bears, elk, and
economists. And I do wonder if it's
partly because there is a proclivity of
academics to go hiking. I actually think
that that's what it is. And so, you
might as well go somewhere that's
beautiful and rugged and you can
experience the great
>> was Vulker and fly fishing, wasn't it?
Well, is that what it was about?
>> Yeah, it's fly fishing camp. This is
It's like baseball or cricket.
>> Okay. that. Anyway, Steve Rashid of
Missou writes in the following. The lack
of systemic risk in the economy should
ensure the economy will remain as
impervious to shock. Steve joins us now
for more. Steve, good morning. It's good
to see you. Let's talk about that. The
shockproof economy, we've been teasing
it all morning out of your appearance.
What is so shockproof about this
economy? What makes it shockproof?
>> Well, as as I indicated, there's no
systemic risk. There's no asset
liability mismatches and there's no
asset price bubbles. So typically
systemic risk occurs when there's an
asset price bubble that is funded by an
asset liability mismatch. I.e. you've
borrowed short and invested long and the
rising asset price bubble eventually a
curve of inversion changes the
economics. The bubble bursts, capitals
destroyed and when capital's destroyed,
liquidity just sucks out of the economy.
In an environment where assets and
liabilities are matched and there's no
asset price bubble, a curve inversion
had no impact. and the economy because
balance sheets when you go down the
chain through non-financial corporates,
households, banks, shadow banks because
the balance sheets are strong,
everyone's deleveraging, everyone has
very very exceptionally low debt
servicing costs and relatively long
duration. Uh you're in an environment
where nobody has rollover risk, nobody
feels the impact of anything that
happens from the interest rate
environment and therefore you don't have
the same kind of credit related issues
that have typically popped up and caused
a problem. Is this a shockproof economy
or a shockproof market?
>> Oh, no. It's a it's a shockproof economy
because corporations are in this
position as well. Non-financial
corporations debt service burdens go
back to 1960 levels and they've been
deleveraging since the financial crisis.
Even though we have record corporate
issuance, the amount of corporate debt
outstanding is actually continuing to go
down because we refinance less than
we're actually maturing off.
corporations in this country are cashri
um and we see that in terms of their
cash positions whether it's the mag
seven or even when you go down the chain
of uh uh to to smaller and smaller
companies you see this buildup of cash
that has taken place it's one of the
reasons why there's an excess supply of
savings in the economy that's helping to
dampen long-term interest rates
>> okay so this is the reason why the
economy hasn't tanked and why you
haven't seen any kind of uh real
deterioration in equity valuations but
can you see ongoing strength in the face
of potential I don't want to say shock
But changes, real changes to trade and
potential tariffs that could be much
higher than people are currently
expecting.
>> Again, because of the ability for
companies in this very solid financial
position to adjust their businesses,
which gets back to your Tom King quote,
you wind up in an environment where
basically you have the ability to adjust
quicker than people think. And this is
really what sets the US economy largely
apart because we are the largest most
leveraged nation in the world. You have
to understand credit to understand how
the economy functions. And in an
environment where credit quality is
excellent, you see that in spreads,
you're seeing an environment in which
there's really no issue. People can get
the funding they need to morph their
businesses or they just use it out of
internal earnings. One additional task
now for economists is to navigate policy
coming from this White House and really
understand what the strategy is if there
is one. You've pushed back against the
people that have suggested there isn't
one. You believe there is. So, let's get
into that. What is the strategy? Well, I
I I think you have to understand the
strategies on three-dimensional. There's
geopolitical, there's socioeconomic and
macroeconomic. And we in our business
tend to just think in the macroeconomic
plane, but you look at things like what
Trump is doing, like what he just did
with Brazil, what he's doing with China.
Those are geopolitical issues. Then you
look at Mexico and it's largely a
socioeconomic issue. Um, so you've got
to take apart some of these things that
seem irrational from a macroeconomic
standpoint and then look at the
macroeconomic piece of it and say, well,
what he's doing so far is basically
attempting to create a level playing
field, which corporate America kind of
likes. Um, number one. Number two, he
really keeps on, as we indicated with
Mike McKe, keeps on pushing out the
dates of these tariffs, and people are
beginning to recognize it is a
negotiating trick um on his side. So,
you begin to you begin to back away from
the paranoia that comes out of it. And
you you have to ask yourself a question.
Does Donald Trump really want to destroy
the economy going into the midterm
elections? The answer is no. I think
Donald Trump wants to try to expand his
polarity in the midterm elections to do
what he really wants to do, which is
drain the swamp, which means he needs a
bigger majority in Congress to change
some of the laws that have been keeping
us with a structural deficit of $2
trillion. Is that a recipe that comes
with higher yields or lower yields?
Higher rates or lower rates?
>> I I think the risk is it comes with
higher inflation and with it higher
yields? Um I I think the the presumption
that the market has had continuously
that the Fed needs to cut interest rates
because the economy is somehow or
another weakening. This economy is
capable of running a trend and when you
throw fiscal stimulus on it, you will
get above trend. And even though you
could say over the long term the Trump
tax cut and the tariffs may net out in
the 2025 2026 period in particular, the
tax cut is frontloaded.
So you wind up with the net stimulus
helping to lift the economy in 2026.
>> Given that if the Federal Reserve does
cut rates this year, will that lead to
hotter than expected inflation in the
medium term that challenges that? I
think it'll lead to a backup in yields
almost every bit as much as they cut
short-term interest rates as we saw
happen last year. Um, you know, I think
when you cut interest rates when you
don't need to cut interest rates, it's
not a good policy prescription. Um, and
they clearly made a mistake last year.
And I think they're sitting here this
year with, as Mike indicated, you've all
indicated that you have situations in
terms of the potential of tariffs coming
down the pipeline to lift prices, and
you have an economy that's proving to be
very, very resilient. You've got a labor
market that's proving to be very
resilient. What would be the benefit of
cutting interest rates?
>> Steve, you've called the economy really
well so far. Credit to you. It's good to
catch up. Thank you. Thank you very
much, Steve Rashido there of Missouo.
That's the situation. in the economy,
the situation in the market so far going
into the weekend. Equities just a little
bit softer. The opening pal about 50
minutes away with an update on stories
elsewhere with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Lizzie Burton. Hey Lizzy.
>> Hey John. Secretary of State Marco Rubio
met his Chinese counterpart on the
sidelines of the Azanne talks in
Malaysia. It's the first in-person
meeting between the two since President
Trump returned to the White House. After
the meeting, Rubio told reporters odds
are high for a meeting between
Presidents Trump and China's Xiinping.
Elsewhere, Tesla is planning to expand
its robo taxi service into California
and Arizona after its recent roll out in
Texas. CEO Elon Musk expects the
driverless cars could launch in the San
Francisco Bay area in a month or two.
Tesla's also applied to operate in
Phoenix, and a decision is expected by
the end of this month. And Goldman Sachs
is piloting its first AI software
engineer. Goldman's tech chief, Marco
Argenti, told CNBC that the bank has
partnered up with AI startup Cognition
for the Endeavor. The company plans to
start augmenting its workforce with the
AI engineer that is named Devon. And
that's been my brief, John.
>> Lizzy, thank you and thanks for
everything this week here in New York.
Lizzy Burden there. Thank you very much.
Up next on the program, we'll set you up
for the day ahead. Plus, Walter Pyick of
Lightshed Partners calling for
disruptive change at Apple. The future
of Tim Cook up next.
[Music]
I think cuz I think we're going to see
infl inflation a little bit elevated
here, then growth is going to remain
pretty strong. We're going to have
positive stimulus from the fiscal bill
and it's going to be just a tough
backdrop for them to cut. Eventually,
they will they certainly want to and it
makes perfect sense for them to get
there. It's just going to take some
time. I think we're talking mid2026.
>> Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research with I
think the call of the morning so far. I
hope the president's not listening. The
middle of 2026 for the first interest
rate cut from this Federal Reserve.
>> Yeah. At the same time, isn't this kind
of what he wants? the economy to hold in
there to allow him to continue with the
negotiating tools. So, on one hand, yes,
this isn't what he wants. On the other
hand, well, you know, maybe it is when
it comes to the economic implications.
>> Counting you down to the opening bar
with equity futures negative here by
0.5%. As we get to the weekend, a sneak
peek of next week, Tuesday, bank
earnings kicking off with JP Morgan
City, Wells Fargo, plus CPI inflation
data the very same morning. On
Wednesday, earnings from Bank of
America, Goldman, Morgan Stanley, and
some PPI data. Thursday, another round
of claims plus retail sales. And on
Friday, going into next weekend, you
consumer sentiment. That's all for next
week on the here and now. Let's talk
about tech. A management shakeup at
Apple as its COO plans to step down. Our
next guest thinks it should also
consider replacing longtime CEO Tim
Cook. What a Piscick of Lightshed
Partners writing, "Apple now needs a
product focused CEO, not one centered on
logistics. It's time for more disruptive
change and not less. Walt joins us now
for more. Walt, it's been too long, my
friend. It's got to catch up with you.
Let's just start with the the core issue
here. What do you think the problem is
at Apple right now? Well, there's
missing product cycles. I mean, the the
big one now is AI. It's one thing to
pull the string on things like Apple TV,
which were predicted for years and never
happened, or Project Titan, a much
bigger one, which was an autonomous car.
I was just down in Austin. The
autonomous industry down in Austin is
obviously thriving. Huge opportunity I
think missed by stopping that program.
But this newest version and frankly
autonomy is a version of AI. But AI in
general not only is a missed revenue
opportunity, but if you're not a a major
player there and you're one of these
large companies like Apple, Google,
whoever, you know, that in itself can
disrupt you and and they are clearly far
behind.
overpromised uh a year ago and that's
being kind to call that overpromising.
They said that they were going to have
all of these AI features. None of them
developed. We all use Siri. It still is
not a good service. Um this is a real
risk to to the to the company. This is
to say nothing of of Tim Cook being an
incredible CEO for what they needed
during this iPhone era with logistics.
But now you clearly need someone that
can move forward on a lot of the product
development. This company spends John $
35 billion a year in R&D. It has risen
as a percent of their revenue to 8% of
revenue and it was only what three or
four 5% 10 15 years ago. $35 billion a
year on new products and we've seen the
stuff like the HomePod or the Vision Pro
which I, you know, blew $4,000 on and
haven't seen any app development of note
uh on there. We we need someone in there
to kind of not only develop those
products, but have the confidence to
push them forward to commercialization.
>> Well, is it something that can be solved
just with an acquisition, whether that's
an acquisition of a company or doing
what Mark Zuckerberg's doing over at
Meta and just acquiring lots and lots of
very expensive talent? Why does it
require the ultimate story change, which
is to get rid of the leader right now?
>> Apple does tons of acquisitions. They're
buying small companies all the time and
developing multiple teams within the
organization to develop products. In
terms of mega acquisitions, I mean,
yeah, okay, go and try buying Netflix.
Go try and buy uh chat GPT, the one
people are talking about, uh,
Perplexity, as everyone mentions is a
rapper. And then there's this a rapper
of LLM. It's not its own LLM. And the
assumption is that this LLM or this
rapper is somehow going to be able to
integrate with all of the very valuable
information that Apple holds dear from
their users that's private within the
phone where we're saying oh that the you
know the AI experience is only going to
work in the iPhone because that's what
everyone uses and the assumption then is
that perplexity not an LLM a rapper is
going to have the expertise like a chat
GPT to somehow integrate that data and
deep you know do deep integration. I
don't know whether that's true or false,
but like we're everyone's just assuming
that perplexity is going to fix it. It's
certainly going to put them in a better
place in terms of the user experience,
but I'm not sure that necessarily
provides this deep integration that
everyone expects um or just effectively
disintermediates the company altogether
because if they're just passing you
through to J chat GPT and Sam Alman
comes up with a better interface in
working with Johnny Ies in terms of how
you want to get access to your data.
Again, these are these create
existential risks for the company.
>> So, Walter, I'm going to lean on Ed
Lello here. Who would take over Tim
Cook's role? I mean, who do you see as
being a better CEO for Apple?
>> I mean, that's not my job. That's the
board's job. And frankly, that's Tim
Cook's job. The suggestion that like
only Tim Cook is the is the is the CEO
to run this company is crazy, right? I
mean, I've been doing this for 30 years.
You have I've covered plenty of large
companies. It is the CEO's job and the
board's job to develop a bench that can
handle changes that are in the company.
And if they don't have a succession uh
in place today, a a CEO internal at the
company that can take over this company
today, that in itself is a failure of
the CEO of the company as well as the
board. But there's, you know, look, we
can all just ask chat GPT to come up
with answers. There's plenty of answers
of of of CEOs out there that are that
are product focused. maybe some former
Apple employees that can take over an
Apple. But the suggestion that like Tim
Cook is the only one that can run this
company, I've never heard that before.
>> Walter, I've got to say before uh we
started, we actually were asking both
Chat GPT and Siri different questions
and Siri just gave us Google results and
Chash GPT gave us very thoughtout
questions to ask Tim Cook acquisition
targets why they would choose not to and
it was very well thought out. So to your
point, that does seem like an
alternative. I just wonder what happens
to Apple if they are unable to make some
sort of radical change and shake things
up. Does it leave the Magnificent 7?
Does it become obsolete? Is there
somebody else, another company that eats
its lunch?
>> You have Look, Apple, great company.
It's almost like in in some ways I've
heard people say it's an alternative to
treasuries. It's a constant bid. But I
also heard two years ago plenty of
people say like, "Oh, the market can't
go up if Apple doesn't go up." How can
you be negative on Apple? the you're
negative on the market and here we are
the market's at an all-time high, right?
We have leadership changes, which always
happens, right? Everyone always, you
know, gets very upset about, oh, you
know, it's only seven or eight stocks.
Those seven or eight stocks obviously
change over time. Apple's down, markets,
markets at a high. If they don't, you
know, execute on AI, they're just going
to fall further back. And, you know,
they're still getting a premium multiple
in the marketplace. It's a company that
doesn't grow. You have very bullish
analysts that come on this program and
everywhere else and they miss and
guidance misses and they're like, "Oh,
well, don't worry because revenue is
going to get back to five or 10% in the
quarter after guidance and then we move
forward a quarter." And they just pull
the string and say the same thing over
and over and the company never returns
to the growth that they're expecting.
So, if you miss AI and you can't get
back to growth, at some point investors
get fed up. The multiple contracts back
to where the market is or perhaps lower
because you can't grow the company. And
that's that is again the risk that this
company has when it becomes clear that
we're you know beyond the internet era
into the AI era. We have new leaders and
you effectively lose that premium in the
marketplace. People used to tell me that
AT&T could never trade at a premium to
Verizon. Verizon was the quality company
out there and look where we are today.
>> Well, just a final question just to
repeat some of what Lisa said. If
they're the casualty, who's the winner?
Who are you thinking about? Where would
you place your bets right now?
That is what is awesome about this AI
world that we're about to enter, John,
that I don't know. I mean, there are so
many companies that are looking at and
Google search, same issue, right? I
don't even use Google search anymore. I
only chat GPT all of my, you know, all
of the stuff that I'm looking at. So,
that's what's exciting about what new
entrant can come up. That's what's great
about our economy. That's what's great
about a nonregulated competitive
economy. you have new competitors that
can come in and change things. John, you
know, I've been doing this long enough.
People said Motorola would never, you
know, would would be the one forever.
Blackberry, we never get rid of our
Blackberries. Nokia, I'm not saying that
this is the next Blackberry, but like we
are at a time when technology provides
an opportunity for disruption. And when
there's disruption, you have new
entrance come out of nowhere with a
great solution. And that's what AI,
that's what's so exciting about AI and
why I'm so happy to be able to cover
this space for the next 10 years. I've
known you a long time and you don't make
headlines just for the sake of it.
Provocative piece. Loved catching up.
Well, thank you, sir. What a pisic there
of light shed partners.
>> Do you think it's going to be even a
phone? Do you think it could be an
earpiece? Do you think it could be
glasses? Do you think it's just, you
know, an implant in our brains?
>> I'm going to say what Walt said. I've
got no idea neither.
>> Coming up on the program on Monday,
Peter Cheer of Academy Securities, Tom
Becker of Black Rockck, Vto Spaduto of
RBC Capital Markets, and Judy Bill of
Kane Anderson RDN from New York. Have a
wonderful weekend. This was Blimp
Surveillance.